and what is the use of a book, without pictures or conversations?
Oh dear! Oh dear! I shall be late!
Well! after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs! How brave they'll all think me at home! Why, I wouldn't say anything about it, even if I fell off the top of the house!
I wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time? I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let me see: that would be four thousand miles down, I think-- --yes, that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I've got to?
I wonder if I shall fall right _through_ the earth! How funny it'll seem to come out among the people that walk with their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think-- --but I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia? And what an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking! No, it'll never do to ask: perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.
Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I should think! I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah my dear! I wish you were down here with me! There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder? Do cats eat bats? Do cats eat bats? Do bats eat cats?
Now, Dinah, tell me the truth: did you ever eat a bat?
Oh my ears and whiskers, how late it's getting!
and even if my head would go through, it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up like a telescope! I think I could, if I only knew how to begin.
which certainly was not here before,
No, I'll look first, and see whether it's marked '_poison_' or not
What a curious feeling! I must be shutting up like a telescope.
for it might end, you know, in my going out altogether, like a candle. I wonder what I should be like then? Come, there's no use in crying like that! I advise you to leave off this minute!
But it's no use now, to pretend to be two people! Why, there's hardly enough of me left to make _one_ respectable person!
Well, I'll eat it, and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!
Which way? Which way?
Curiouser and curiouser! now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that ever was! Good-bye, feet!
Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on your shoes and stockings for you now, dears? I'm sure _I_ shan't be able! I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you: you must manage the best way you can;--but I must be kind to them, or perhaps they won't walk the way I want to go! Let me see: I'll give them a new pair of boots every Christmas.
They must go by the carrier, and how funny it'll seem, sending presents to one's own feet! And how odd the directions will look!       _Alice's Right Foot, Esq., Hearthrug, near the Fender,_ (_with      Alice's love_).  Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, a great girl like you, to go on crying in this way! Stop this moment, I tell you!
Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she be savage if I've kept her waiting!
If you please, sir--
Dear, dear! How queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things went on just as usual. I wonder if I've been changed in the night? Let me think: was I the same when I got up this morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a little different. But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in the world am I? Ah, _that's_ the great puzzle!
I'm sure I'm not Ada, for her hair goes in such long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she, oh! she knows such a very little! Besides, _she's_ she, and _I'm_ I, and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is! I'll try if I know all the things I used to know. Let me see: four times five is twelve, and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at that rate! However, the Multiplication Table doesn't signify: let's try Geography. London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and Rome--no, _that's_ all wrong, I'm certain! I must have been changed for Mabel! I'll try and say '_How doth the little_--'
I'm sure those are not the right words, I must be Mabel after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so many lessons to learn! No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm Mabel, I'll stay down here! It'll be no use their putting their heads down and saying 'Come up again, dear!' I shall only look up and say 'Who am I then? Tell me that first, and then, if I like being that person, I'll come up: if not, I'll stay down here till I'm somebody else'--but, oh dear! I do wish they _would_ put their heads down! I am so _very_ tired of being all alone here!
How _can_ I have done that? I must be growing small again.
That _was_ a narrow escape! and now for the garden!
and things are worse than ever, for I never was so small as this before, never! And I declare it's too bad, that it is!
and in that case I can go back by railway,
I wish I hadn't cried so much! I shall be punished for it now, I suppose, by being drowned in my own tears! That _will_ be a queer thing, to be sure! However, everything is queer to-day.
Would it be of any use, now, to speak to this mouse? Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should think very likely it can talk: at any rate, there's no harm in trying.
O Mouse, do you know the way out of this pool? I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!
Perhaps it doesn't understand English, I daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the Conqueror.
O? est ma chatte?
Oh, I beg your pardon! I quite forgot you didn't like cats.
Not like cats! Would _you_ like cats if you were me?
Well, perhaps not, don't be angry about it. And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah: I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her. She is such a dear quiet thing, and she sits purring so nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon! We won't talk about her any more if you'd rather not.
We indeed! As if _I_ would talk on such a subject! Our family always _hated_ cats: nasty, low, vulgar things! Don't let me hear the name again!
I won't indeed! Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?
There is such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you! A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly brown hair! And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds! He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear! I'm afraid I've offended it again!
Mouse dear! Do come back again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't like them!
Let us get to the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.
I am older than you, and must know better;
Sit down, all of you, and listen to me! _I'll_ soon make you dry enough!
Ahem! are you all ready? This is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! 'William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--'
Ugh!
I beg your pardon! Did you speak?
Not I!
I thought you did, --I proceed. 'Edwin and Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him: and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable--'
Found _what_?
Found _it_, of course you know what 'it' means.
I know what 'it' means well enough, when _I_ find a thing, it's generally a frog or a worm. The question is, what did the archbishop find?
'--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William and offer him the crown. William's conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his Normans--' How are you getting on now, my dear?
As wet as ever, it doesn't seem to dry me at all.
In that case, I move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more energetic remedies--
Speak English! I don't know the meaning of half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do either!
What I was going to say, was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.
What _is_ a Caucus-race?
Why, the best way to explain it is to do it.
the exact shape doesn't matter,
The race is over!
_Everybody_ has won, and all must have prizes.
Why, _she_, of course,
But she must have a prize herself, you know,
Of course,
What else have you got in your pocket?
Only a thimble,
Hand it over here,
We beg your acceptance of this elegant thimble;
You promised to tell me your history, you know, and why it is you hate--C and D,
Mine is a long and a sad tale!
It _is_ a long tail, certainly, but why do you call it sad?
You are not attending! What are you thinking of?
I beg your pardon, you had got to the fifth bend, I think?
I had _not!_
A knot! Oh, do let me help to undo it!
I shall do nothing of the sort, You insult me by talking such nonsense!
I didn't mean it! But you're so easily offended, you know!
Please come back and finish your story!
What a pity it wouldn't stay!
Ah, my dear! Let this be a lesson to you never to lose _your_ temper!
Hold your tongue, Ma! You're enough to try the patience of an oyster!
I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do! She'd soon fetch it back!
And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?
Dinah's our cat. And she's such a capital one for catching mice you can't think! And oh, I wish you could see her after the birds! Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look at it!
I really must be getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!
Come away, my dears! It's high time you were all in bed!
I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah! Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm sure she's the best cat in the world! Oh, my dear Dinah! I wonder if I shall ever see you any more!
The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She'll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where _can_ I have dropped them, I wonder?
Why, Mary Ann, what _are_ you doing out here? Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of gloves and a fan! Quick, now!
He took me for his housemaid, How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am! But I'd better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.
How queer it seems, to be going messages for a rabbit! I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on messages next! 'Miss Alice! Come here directly, and get ready for your walk!' 'Coming in a minute, nurse! But I've got to see that the mouse doesn't get out.' Only I don't think, that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering people about like that!
I know _something_ interesting is sure to happen, whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this bottle does. I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!
That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so much!
Now I can do no more, whatever happens. What _will_ become of me?
It was much pleasanter at home, when one wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by mice and rabbits. I almost wish I hadn't gone down that rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know, this sort of life! I do wonder what _can_ have happened to me! When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one! There ought to be a book written about me, that there ought! And when I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now, at least there's no room to grow up any more _here_.
But then, shall I _never_ get any older than I am now? That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but then--always to have lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn't like _that!_
Oh, you foolish Alice! How can you learn lessons in here? Why, there's hardly room for _you_, and no room at all for any lesson-books!
Mary Ann! Mary Ann! Fetch me my gloves this moment!
Then I'll go round and get in at the window.
_That_ you won't!
Pat! Pat! Where are you?
Sure then I'm here! Digging for apples, yer honour!
Digging for apples, indeed! Here! Come and help me out of _this!_
Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?
Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!
An arm, you goose! Who ever saw one that size? Why, it fills the whole window!
Sure, it does, yer honour: but it's an arm for all that.
Well, it's got no business there, at any rate: go and take it away!
Sure, I don't like it, yer honour, at all, at all!
Do as I tell you, you coward!
What a number of cucumber-frames there must be! I wonder what they'll do next! As for pulling me out of the window, I only wish they _could!_ I'm sure _I_ don't want to stay in here any longer!
Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he? Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill! I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but I _think_ I can kick a little!
This is Bill,
Catch him, you by the hedge!
That's Bill,
Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes like a sky-rocket!
We must burn the house down!
If you do, I'll set Dinah at you!
I wonder what they _will_ do next! If they had any sense, they'd take the roof off.
A barrowful will do, to begin with.
A barrowful of _what?_
I'll put a stop to this,
You'd better not do that again!
If I eat one of these cakes, it's sure to make _some_ change in my size; and as it can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I suppose.
The first thing I've got to do, is to grow to my right size again; and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden. I think that will be the best plan.
Poor little thing!
And yet what a dear little puppy it was! I should have liked teaching it tricks very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it! Oh dear! I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again! Let me see--how _is_ it to be managed? I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great question is, what?
Who are _you?_
I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--at least I know who I _was_ when I got up this morning, but I think I must have been changed several times since then.
What do you mean by that? Explain yourself!
I can't explain _myself_, I'm afraid, sir, because I'm not myself, you see.
I don't see,
I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly, for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.
It isn't,
Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet, but when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll feel it a little queer, won't you?
Not a bit,
Well, perhaps your feelings may be different, all I know is, it would feel very queer to _me_.
You! Who are _you?_
I think, you ought to tell me who _you_ are, first.
Why?
Come back! I've something important to say!
Keep your temper,
Is that all?
No,
So you think you're changed, do you?
I'm afraid I am, sir, I can't remember things as I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!
Can't remember _what_ things?
Well, I've tried to say but it all came different!
Repeat That is not said right,
Not _quite_ right, I'm afraid, some of the words have got altered.
It is wrong from beginning to end,
What size do you want to be?
Oh, I'm not particular as to size, only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.
I _don't_ know, Are you content now?
Well, I should like to be a _little_ larger, sir, if you wouldn't mind, three inches is such a wretched height to be.
It is a very good height indeed!
But I'm not used to it!
I wish the creatures wouldn't be so easily offended!
You'll get used to it in time,
One side will make you grow taller, and the other side will make you grow shorter.
One side of _what?_ The other side of _what?_
Of the mushroom,
And now which is which?
Come, my head's free at last! What _can_ all that green stuff be? And where _have_ my shoulders got to? And oh, my poor hands, how is it I can't see you?
Serpent!
I'm _not_ a serpent! Let me alone!
Serpent, I say again! I've tried every way, and nothing seems to suit them!
I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,
I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've tried hedges, but those serpents! There's no pleasing them!
As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs, but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and day! Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!
I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,
And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood, and just as I was thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come wriggling down from the sky! Ugh, Serpent!
But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you! I'm a--I'm a--
Well! _What_ are you? I can see you're trying to invent something!
I--I'm a little girl,
A likely story indeed! I've seen a good many little girls in my time, but never _one_ with such a neck as that! No, no! You're a serpent; and there's no use denying it. I suppose you'll be telling me next that you never tasted an egg!
I _have_ tasted eggs, certainly, but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.
I don't believe it, but if they do, why then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.
You're looking for eggs, I know _that_ well enough; and what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a serpent?
It matters a good deal to _me_, but I'm not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't want _yours_: I don't like them raw.
Well, be off, then!
Come, there's half my plan done now! How puzzling all these changes are! I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to another! However, I've got back to my right size: the next thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how _is_ that to be done, I wonder?
Whoever lives there, it'll never do to come upon them _this_ size: why, I should frighten them out of their wits!
For the Duchess. An invitation from the Queen to play croquet.
From the Queen. An invitation for the Duchess to play croquet.
There's no sort of use in knocking, and that for two reasons. First, because I'm on the same side of the door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise inside, no one could possibly hear you.
Please, then, how am I to get in?
There might be some sense in your knocking, if we had the door between us. For instance, if you were _inside_, you might knock, and I could let you out, you know.
But perhaps he can't help it, his eyes are so _very_ nearly at the top of his head. But at any rate he might answer questions.
How am I to get in?
I shall sit here, till tomorrow--
--or next day, maybe,
How am I to get in?
_Are_ you to get in at all? That's the first question, you know.
It's really dreadful, the way all the creatures argue. It's enough to drive one crazy!
I shall sit here, on and off, for days and days.
But what am _I_ to do?
Anything you like,
Oh, there's no use in talking to him, he's perfectly idiotic!
There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!
Please would you tell me, why your cat grins like that?
It's a Cheshire cat, and that's why. Pig!
I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I didn't know that cats _could_ grin.
They all can, and most of 'em do.
I don't know of any that do,
You don't know much, and that's a fact.
Oh, _please_ mind what you're doing! Oh, there goes his _precious_ nose!
If everybody minded their own business, the world would go round a deal faster than it does.
Which would _not_ be an advantage, Just think of what work it would make with the day and night! You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn round on its axis--
Talking of axes, chop off her head!
Twenty-four hours, I _think_; or is it twelve? I--
Oh, don't bother _me_, I never could abide figures!
"Speak roughly to your little boy,     And beat him when he sneezes: He only does it to annoy,     Because he knows it teases."
"I speak severely to my boy,     I beat him when he sneezes; For he can thoroughly enjoy     The pepper when he pleases!"
Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like! I must go and get ready to play croquet with the Queen,
just like a star-fish, If I don't take this child away with me,
they're sure to kill it in a day or two: wouldn't it be murder to leave it behind?
Don't grunt, that's not at all a proper way of expressing yourself.
But perhaps it was only sobbing,
If you're going to turn into a pig, my dear, I'll have nothing more to do with you. Mind now!
Now, what am I to do with this creature when I get it home?
If it had grown up, it would have made a dreadfully ugly child: but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.
if one only knew the right way to change them--
Cheshire Puss,
Come, it's pleased so far,
Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?
That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,
I don't much care where--
Then it doesn't matter which way you go,
--so long as I get _somewhere_,
Oh, you're sure to do that, if you only walk long enough.
What sort of people live about here?
In _that_ direction, lives a Hatter: and in _that_ direction, lives a March Hare. Visit either you like: they're both mad.
But I don't want to go among mad people,
Oh, you can't help that, we're all mad here. I'm mad. You're mad.
How do you know I'm mad?
You must be, or you wouldn't have come here.
And how do you know that you're mad?
To begin with, a dog's not mad. You grant that?
I suppose so,
Well, then, you see, a dog growls when it's angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased. Now _I_ growl when I'm pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry. Therefore I'm mad.
_I_ call it purring, not growling,
Call it what you like, Do you play croquet with the Queen to-day?
I should like it very much, but I haven't been invited yet.
You'll see me there, By-the-bye, what became of the baby? I'd nearly forgotten to ask.
It turned into a pig,
I thought it would,
I've seen hatters before, the March Hare will be much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.
Did you say pig, or fig?
I said pig, and I wish you wouldn't keep appearing and vanishing so suddenly: you make one quite giddy.
All right,
Well! I've often seen a cat without a grin, but a grin without a cat! It's the most curious thing I ever saw in my life!
Suppose it should be raving mad after all! I almost wish I'd gone to see the Hatter instead!
Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse, only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.
There's _plenty_ of room!
Have some wine,
I don't see any wine,
There isn't any,
Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,
It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being invited,
I didn't know it was _your_ table, it's laid for a great many more than three.
Your hair wants cutting,
You should learn not to make personal remarks, it's very rude.
Why is a raven like a writing-desk?
Come, we shall have some fun now! I'm glad they've begun asking riddles.
--I believe I can guess that
Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?
Exactly so,
Then you should say what you mean,
I do, at least--at least I mean what I say--that's the same thing, you know.
Not the same thing a bit! You might just as well say that 'I see what I eat' is the same thing as 'I eat what I see'!
You might just as well say, that 'I like what I get' is the same thing as 'I get what I like'!
You might just as well say, that 'I breathe when I sleep' is the same thing as 'I sleep when I breathe'!
It _is_ the same thing with you,
What day of the month is it?
The fourth.
Two days wrong! I told you butter wouldn't suit the works!
It was the _best_ butter,
Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well, you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.
It was the _best_ butter, you know.
What a funny watch! It tells the day of the month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!
Why should it? Does _your_ watch tell you what year it is?
Of course not, but that's because it stays the same year for such a long time together.
Which is just the case with _mine_,
I don't quite understand you,
The Dormouse is asleep again,
Of course, of course; just what I was going to remark myself.
Have you guessed the riddle yet?
No, I give it up, what's the answer?
I haven't the slightest idea,
Nor I,
I think you might do something better with the time, than waste it in asking riddles that have no answers.
If you knew Time as well as I do, you wouldn't talk about wasting _it_. It's _him_.
I don't know what you mean,
Of course you don't! I dare say you never even spoke to Time!
Perhaps not, but I know I have to beat time when I learn music.
Ah! that accounts for it, He won't stand beating. Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do almost anything you liked with the clock. For instance, suppose it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons: you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the clock in a twinkling! Half-past one, time for dinner!
I only wish it was,
That would be grand, certainly, but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.
Not at first, perhaps, but you could keep it to half-past one as long as you liked.
Is that the way _you_ manage?
Not I! We quarrelled last March--just before _he_ went mad, you know-- --it was at the great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing You know the song, perhaps?
I've heard something like it,
It goes on, you know, in this way:--
_Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle_--
Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse, when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, 'He's murdering the time! Off with his head!'
How dreadfully savage!
And ever since that, he won't do a thing I ask! It's always six o'clock now.
Is that the reason so many tea-things are put out here?
Yes, that's it, it's always tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.
Then you keep moving round, I suppose?
Exactly so, as the things get used up.
But what happens when you come to the beginning again?
Suppose we change the subject, I'm getting tired of this. I vote the young lady tells us a story.
I'm afraid I don't know one,
I wasn't asleep, I heard every word you fellows were saying.
Tell us a story!
Yes, please do!
And be quick about it, or you'll be asleep again before it's done.
Once upon a time there were three little sisters, and their names were Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--
What did they live on?
They lived on treacle,
They couldn't have done that, you know, they'd have been ill.
So they were, _very_ ill.
But why did they live at the bottom of a well?
Take some more tea,
I've had nothing yet, so I can't take more.
You mean you can't take _less_, it's very easy to take _more_ than nothing.
Nobody asked _your_ opinion,
Who's making personal remarks now?
Why did they live at the bottom of a well?
It was a treacle-well.
There's no such thing!
If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the story for yourself.
No, please go on! I won't interrupt again. I dare say there may be _one_.
One, indeed!
And so these three little sisters--they were learning to draw, you know--
What did they draw?
Treacle,
I want a clean cup, let's all move one place on.
But I don't understand. Where did they draw the treacle from?
You can draw water out of a water-well, so I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh, stupid?
But they were _in_ the well,
Of course they were, --well in.
They were learning to draw, and they drew all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--
Why with an M?
Why not?
--that begins with an M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--you know you say things are --did you ever see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?
Really, now you ask me, I don't think--
Then you shouldn't talk,
At any rate I'll never go _there_ again! It's the stupidest tea-party I ever was at in all my life!
That's very curious! But everything's curious today. I think I may as well go in at once.
Now, I'll manage better this time,
Look out now, Five! Don't go splashing paint over me like that!
I couldn't help it, Seven jogged my elbow.
That's right, Five! Always lay the blame on others!
_You'd_ better not talk! I heard the Queen say only yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!
What for?
That's none of _your_ business, Two!
Yes, it _is_ his business! and I'll tell him--it was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.
Well, of all the unjust things--
Would you tell me, why you are painting those roses?
Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to have been a _red_ rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads cut off, you know. So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore she comes, to--
The Queen! The Queen!
and besides, what would be the use of a procession, if people had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see it?
Who is this?
Idiot! What's your name, child?
My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,
Why, they're only a pack of cards, after all. I needn't be afraid of them!
And who are _these?_
How should _I_ know? It's no business of _mine_.
Off with her head! Off--
Nonsense!
Consider, my dear: she is only a child!
Turn them over!
Get up!
Leave off that! You make me giddy. What _have_ you been doing here?
May it please your Majesty, we were trying--
_I_ see! Off with their heads!
You shan't be beheaded!
Are their heads off? That's right! Can you play croquet?
Yes!
Come on, then!
It's--it's a very fine day!
Very, --where's the Duchess?
Hush! Hush! She's under sentence of execution.
What for?
Did you say 'What a pity!'?
No, I didn't, I don't think it's at all a pity. I said 'What for?'
She boxed the Queen's ears-- Oh, hush! The Queen will hear you! You see, she came rather late, and the Queen said--
Get to your places!
Off with his head! Off with her head!
and then, what would become of me? They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great wonder is, that there's any one left alive!
It's the Cheshire Cat: now I shall have somebody to talk to.
How are you getting on?
It's no use speaking to it, till its ears have come, or at least one of them.
I don't think they play at all fairly, and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it saw mine coming!
How do you like the Queen?
Not at all, she's so extremely--
--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while finishing the game.
Who _are_ you talking to?
It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat, allow me to introduce it.
I don't like the look of it at all, however, it may kiss my hand if it likes.
I'd rather not,
Don't be impertinent, and don't look at me like that!
A cat may look at a king, I've read that in some book, but I don't remember where.
Well, it must be removed,
My dear! I wish you would have this cat removed!
Off with his head!
I'll fetch the executioner myself,
but it doesn't matter much, as all the arches are gone from this side of the ground.
It belongs to the Duchess: you'd better ask _her_ about it.
She's in prison, fetch her here.
You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old thing!
When _I'm_ a Duchess, I won't have any pepper in my kitchen _at all_. Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that makes people hot-tempered, and vinegar that makes them sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar and such things that make children sweet-tempered. I only wish people knew _that_: then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you know--
You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you forget to talk. I can't tell you just now what the moral of that is, but I shall remember it in a bit.
Perhaps it hasn't one,
Tut, tut, child! Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it.
The game's going on rather better now,
'Tis so, and the moral of that is--'Oh, 'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!'
Somebody said, that it's done by everybody minding their own business!
Ah, well! It means much the same thing, and the moral of _that_ is--'Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.'
How fond she is of finding morals in things!
I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your waist, the reason is, that I'm doubtful about the temper of your flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?
He might bite,
Very true, flamingoes and mustard both bite. And the moral of that is--'Birds of a feather flock together.'
Only mustard isn't a bird,
Right, as usual, what a clear way you have of putting things!
It's a mineral, I _think_,
Of course it is, there's a large mustard-mine near here. And the moral of that is--'The more there is of mine, the less there is of yours.'
Oh, I know! it's a vegetable. It doesn't look like one, but it is.
I quite agree with you, and the moral of that is--'Be what you would seem to be'--or if you'd like it put more simply--'Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise.'
I think I should understand that better, if I had it written down: but I can't quite follow it as you say it.
That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,
Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,
Oh, don't talk about trouble! I make you a present of everything I've said as yet.
A cheap sort of present! I'm glad they don't give birthday presents like that!
Thinking again?
I've a right to think,
Just about as much right, as pigs have to fly; and the m--
A fine day, your Majesty!
Now, I give you fair warning, either you or your head must be off, and that in about half no time! Take your choice!
Let's go on with the game,
Off with his head! Off with her head!
Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?
No, I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.
It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,
I never saw one, or heard of one,
Come on, then, and he shall tell you his history,
You are all pardoned.
Come, _that's_ a good thing!
Up, lazy thing! and take this young lady to see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history. I must go back and see after some executions I have ordered;
What fun!
What _is_ the fun?
Why, _she_, It's all her fancy, that: they never executes nobody, you know. Come on!
Everybody says 'come on!' here, I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!
What is his sorrow?
It's all his fancy, that: he hasn't got no sorrow, you know. Come on!
This here young lady, she wants for to know your history, she do.
I'll tell it her, sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've finished.
I don't see how he can _ever_ finish, if he doesn't begin.
Once, I was a real Turtle.
Hjckrrh!
When we were little, we went to school in the sea. The master was an old Turtle--we used to call him Tortoise--
Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?
We called him Tortoise because he taught us, really you are very dull!
You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple question,
Drive on, old fellow! Don't be all day about it!
Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe it--
I never said I didn't!
You did,
Hold your tongue!
We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school every day--
_I've_ been to a day-school, too, you needn't be so proud as all that.
With extras?
Yes, we learned French and music.
And washing?
Certainly not!
Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school, Now at _ours_ they had at the end of the bill, 'French, music, _and washing_--extra.'
You couldn't have wanted it much, living at the bottom of the sea.
I couldn't afford to learn it. I only took the regular course.
What was that?
Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with, and then the different branches of Arithmetic--Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.
I never heard of 'Uglification,' What is it?
What! Never heard of uglifying! You know what to beautify is, I suppose?
Yes, it means--to--make--anything--prettier.
Well, then, if you don't know what to uglify is, you _are_ a simpleton.
What else had you to learn?
Well, there was Mystery, --Mystery, ancient and modern, with Seaography: then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, that used to come once a week: _he_ taught us Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.
What was _that_ like?
Well, I can't show it you myself, I'm too stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt it.
Hadn't time, I went to the Classics master, though. He was an old crab, _he_ was.
I never went to him, he taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.
So he did, so he did,
And how many hours a day did you do lessons?
Ten hours the first day, nine the next, and so on.
What a curious plan!
That's the reason they're called lessons, because they lessen from day to day.
Then the eleventh day must have been a holiday?
Of course it was,
And how did you manage on the twelfth?
That's enough about lessons, tell her something about the games now.
Same as if he had a bone in his throat,
You may not have lived much under the sea--
I haven't,
and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--
I once tasted--
No, never
--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is!
No, indeed, What sort of a dance is it?
Why, you first form into a line along the sea-shore--
Two lines! Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--
_That_ generally takes some time,
--you advance twice--
Each with a lobster as a partner!
Of course, advance twice, set to partners--
--change lobsters, and retire in same order,
Then, you know, you throw the--
The lobsters!
--as far out to sea as you can--
Swim after them!
Turn a somersault in the sea!
Change lobsters again!
Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,
It must be a very pretty dance,
Would you like to see a little of it?
Very much indeed,
Come, let's try the first figure! We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?
Oh, _you_ sing, I've forgotten the words.
Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch, and I do so like that curious song about the whiting!
Oh, as to the whiting, they--you've seen them, of course?
Yes, I've often seen them at dinn--
I don't know where Dinn may be, but if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're like.
I believe so, They have their tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.
You're wrong about the crumbs, crumbs would all wash off in the sea. But they _have_ their tails in their mouths; and the reason is--
Tell her about the reason and all that,
The reason is, that they _would_ go with the lobsters to the dance. So they got thrown out to sea. So they had to fall a long way. So they got their tails fast in their mouths. So they couldn't get them out again. That's all.
Thank you, it's very interesting. I never knew so much about a whiting before.
I can tell you more than that, if you like, Do you know why it's called a whiting?
I never thought about it, Why?
_It does the boots and shoes_,
Does the boots and shoes!
Why, what are _your_ shoes done with? I mean, what makes them so shiny?
They're done with blacking, I believe.
Boots and shoes under the sea, are done with a whiting. Now you know.
And what are they made of?
Soles and eels, of course, any shrimp could have told you that.
If I'd been the whiting, I'd have said to the porpoise, 'Keep back, please: we don't want _you_ with us!'
They were obliged to have him with them, no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.
Wouldn't it really?
Of course not, why, if a fish came to _me_, and told me he was going a journey, I should say 'With what porpoise?'
Don't you mean 'purpose'?
I mean what I say,
Come, let's hear some of _your_ adventures.
I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning, but it's no use going back to yesterday, because I was a different person then.
Explain all that,
No, no! The adventures first, explanations take such a dreadful time.
That's very curious.
It's all about as curious as it can be,
It all came different! I should like to hear her try and repeat something now. Tell her to begin.
Stand up and repeat ''_Tis the voice of the sluggard_,'
How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat lessons! I might as well be at school at once.
That's different from what _I_ used to say when I was a child,
Well, I never heard it before, but it sounds uncommon nonsense. I should like to have it explained,
She can't explain it, Go on with the next verse.
But about his toes? How _could_ he turn them out with his nose, you know?
It's the first position in dancing.
Go on with the next verse, it begins
What _is_ the use of repeating all that stuff, if you don't explain it as you go on? It's by far the most confusing thing _I_ ever heard!
Yes, I think you'd better leave off,
Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille? Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you a song?
Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,
Hm! No accounting for tastes! Sing her '_Turtle Soup_,' will you, old fellow?
Chorus again! Come on!
What trial is it?
Come on!
I wish they'd get the trial done, and hand round the refreshments!
That's the judge, because of his great wig.
And that's the jury-box, and those twelve creatures, I suppose they are the jurors.
What are they doing? They can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.
They're putting down their names, for fear they should forget them before the end of the trial.
Stupid things!
Silence in the court!
A nice muddle their slates'll be in before the trial's over!
Herald, read the accusation!
Consider your verdict,
Not yet, not yet! There's a great deal to come before that!
Call the first witness,
First witness!
I beg pardon, your Majesty, for bringing these in: but I hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.
You ought to have finished, When did you begin?
Fourteenth of March, I _think_ it was,
Fifteenth,
Sixteenth,
Write that down,
Take off your hat,
It isn't mine,
_Stolen!_
I keep them to sell, I've none of my own. I'm a hatter.
Give your evidence, and don't be nervous, or I'll have you executed on the spot.
I wish you wouldn't squeeze so. I can hardly breathe.
I can't help it, I'm growing.
You've no right to grow _here_,
Don't talk nonsense, you know you're growing too.
Yes, but _I_ grow at a reasonable pace, not in that ridiculous fashion.
Bring me the list of the singers in the last concert!
Give your evidence, or I'll have you executed, whether you're nervous or not.
I'm a poor man, your Majesty, --and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and the twinkling of the tea--
The twinkling of the _what?_
It _began_ with the tea,
Of course twinkling begins with a T! Do you take me for a dunce? Go on!
I'm a poor man, and most things twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--
I didn't!
You did!
I deny it!
He denies it, leave out that part.
Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--
After that, I cut some more bread-and-butter--
That I can't remember,
You _must_ remember, or I'll have you executed.
I'm a poor man, your Majesty,
You're a _very_ poor _speaker_,
I'm glad I've seen that done, I've so often read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, and I never understood what it meant till now.
If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,
I can't go no lower, I'm on the floor, as it is.
Then you may _sit_ down,
Come, that finished the guinea-pigs! Now we shall get on better.
I'd rather finish my tea,
You may go,
--and just take his head off outside,
Call the next witness!
Give your evidence,
Shan't,
Your Majesty must cross-examine _this_ witness.
Well, if I must, I must, What are tarts made of?
Pepper, mostly,
Treacle,
Collar that Dormouse, Behead that Dormouse! Turn that Dormouse out of court! Suppress him! Pinch him! Off with his whiskers!
Never mind! Call the next witness.
Really, my dear, _you_ must cross-examine the next witness. It quite makes my forehead ache!
--for they haven't got much evidence _yet_,
Alice!
Here!
Oh, I _beg_ your pardon!
The trial cannot proceed, until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--_all_,
not that it signifies much, I should think it would be _quite_ as much use in the trial one way up as the other.
What do you know about this business?
Nothing,
Nothing _whatever?_
Nothing whatever,
That's very important,
_Un_important, your Majesty means, of course,
_Un_important, of course, I meant,
important--unimportant--unimportant--important--
but it doesn't matter a bit,
Silence!
_I'm_ not a mile high,
You are,
Nearly two miles high,
Well, I shan't go, at any rate, besides, that's not a regular rule: you invented it just now.
It's the oldest rule in the book,
Then it ought to be Number One,
Consider your verdict,
There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty, this paper has just been picked up.
What's in it?
I haven't opened it yet, but it seems to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.
It must have been that, unless it was written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.
It isn't directed at all, in fact, there's nothing written on the _outside_. It isn't a letter, after all: it's a set of verses. No, they're not, and that's the queerest thing about it.
He must have imitated somebody else's hand,
Please your Majesty, I didn't write it, and they can't prove I did: there's no name signed at the end.
If you didn't sign it, that only makes the matter worse. You _must_ have meant some mischief, or else you'd have signed your name like an honest man.
That _proves_ his guilt,
It proves nothing of the sort! Why, you don't even know what they're about!
Read them,
Where shall I begin, please your Majesty?
Begin at the beginning, and go on till you come to the end: then stop.
That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet, so now let the jury--
If any one of them can explain it, I'll give him sixpence. _I_ don't believe there's an atom of meaning in it.
If there's no meaning in it, that saves a world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any. And yet I don't know, I seem to see some meaning in them, after all. you can't swim, can you?
Do I look like it?
All right, so far, that's the jury, of course- why, that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--
But, it goes on
Why, there they are! Nothing can be clearer than _that_. Then again--
you never had fits, my dear, I think?
Never!
Then the words don't _fit_ you,
It's a pun! Let the jury consider their verdict,
No, no! Sentence first--verdict afterwards.
Stuff and nonsense! The idea of having the sentence first!
Hold your tongue!
I won't!
Off with her head!
Who cares for you? You're nothing but a pack of cards!
Wake up, Alice dear! Why, what a long sleep you've had!
Oh, I've had such a curious dream!
It _was_ a curious dream, dear, certainly: but now run in to your tea; it's getting late.