The darling! She doesn't even guess what it's all about.
We'll read Faust together ... by the Italian lakes ...
Well--upon my soul!
My God!
I didn't think the Mingotts would have tried it on.
What's the use of two good cooks in one family, now that I've married the girls and can't eat sauces?
After all, after all, just WHAT happened?
He's an awful brute, isn't he?
The very worst; I knew him at Nice, A half-paralysed white sneering fellow--rather handsome head, but eyes with a lot of lashes.  Well, I'll tell you the sort: when he wasn't with women he was collecting china.  Paying any price for both, I understand.
Well, then----?
Well, then; she bolted with his secretary.
Oh, I see.
It didn't last long, though: I heard of her a few months later living alone in Venice.  I believe Lovell Mingott went out to get her.  He said she was desperately unhappy.  That's all right--but this parading her at the Opera's another thing.
Perhaps, she's too unhappy to be left at home.
Oh, that's part of the campaign: Granny's orders, no doubt, When the old lady does a thing she does it thoroughly.
I hope you've told Madame Olenska that we're engaged?  I want everybody to know--I want you to let me announce it this evening at the ball.
If you can persuade Mamma, but why should we change what is already settled?
Tell my cousin yourself: I give you leave.  She says she used to play with you when you were children.
We DID use to play together, didn't we? You were a horrid boy, and kissed me once behind a door; but it was your cousin Vandie Newland, who never looked at me, that I was in love with.
Ah, how this brings it all back to me--I see everybody here in knickerbockers and pantalettes,
Yes, you have been away a very long time.
Oh, centuries and centuries; so long, that I'm sure I'm dead and buried, and this dear old place is heaven;
We all have our pet common people--
Now we shan't have to talk,
Dear,
You see I did as you asked me to,
Yes: I couldn't wait,
Only I wish it hadn't had to be at a ball.
Yes, I know.
But after all--even here we're alone together, aren't we?
Oh, dearest--always!
The worst of it is that I want to kiss you and I can't.
Did you tell my cousin Ellen?
No--I hadn't the chance after all,
Ah.
You must, then, for I didn't either; and I shouldn't like her to think--
Of course not.  But aren't you, after all, the person to do it?
If I'd done it at the right time, yes: but now that there's been a delay I think you must explain that I'd asked you to tell her at the Opera, before our speaking about it to everybody here.  Otherwise she might think I had forgotten her.  You see, she's one of the family, and she's been away so long that she's rather--sensitive.
Dear and great angel!  Of course I'll tell her.
But I haven't seen her yet.  Has she come?
No; at the last minute she decided not to.
At the last minute?
Yes.  She's awfully fond of dancing, But suddenly she made up her mind that her dress wasn't smart enough for a ball, though we thought it so lovely; and so my aunt had to take her home.
Oh, well--
She knows as well as I do, the real reason of her cousin's staying away; but I shall never let her see by the least sign that I am conscious of there being a shadow of a shade on poor Ellen Olenska's reputation.
Old-fashioned eyes?  I hope you don't mean mine, my dear?  I like all the novelties,
Very handsome, very liberal.  In my time a cameo set in pearls was thought sufficient.  But it's the hand that sets off the ring, isn't it, my dear Mr. Archer?
Mine was modelled in Rome by the great Ferrigiani.  You should have May's done: no doubt he'll have it done, my child.  Her hand is large--it's these modern sports that spread the joints--but the skin is white.--And when's the wedding to be?
As soon as ever it can, if only you'll back me up, Mrs. Mingott.
Know each other? Fiddlesticks!  Everybody in New York has always known everybody.  Let the young man have his way, my dear; don't wait till the bubble's off the wine.  Marry them before Lent; I may catch pneumonia any winter now, and I want to give the wedding-breakfast.
Ha!  Beaufort, this is a rare favour!
Thanks.  I wish it might happen oftener, I'm generally so tied down; but I met the Countess Ellen in Madison Square, and she was good enough to let me walk home with her.
Ah--I hope the house will be gayer, now that Ellen's here! Sit down--sit down, Beaufort: push up the yellow armchair; now I've got you I want a good gossip.  I hear your ball was magnificent; and I understand you invited Mrs. Lemuel Struthers?  Well--I've a curiosity to see the woman myself.
Of course if you and Regina invite her the thing is settled.  Well, we need new blood and new money--and I hear she's still very good-looking,
Of course you know already--about May and me, She scolded me for not giving you the news last night at the Opera: I had her orders to tell you that we were engaged--but I couldn't, in that crowd.
Of course I know; yes.  And I'm so glad.  But one doesn't tell such things first in a crowd.
Good-bye; come and see me some day,
And she ought to know that a man who's just engaged doesn't spend his time calling on married women.  But I daresay in the set she's lived in they do--they never do anything else.
It's a pity the Beauforts asked her, But then Regina always does what he tells her; and BEAUFORT--
Certain nuances escape Beaufort,
Oh, necessarily; Beaufort is a vulgar man, My grandfather Newland always used to say to my mother: But at least he's had the advantage of associating with gentlemen; in England too, they say.  It's all very mysterious--
But this Mrs. Struthers, what did you say SHE was, Sillerton?
Out of a mine: or rather out of the saloon at the head of the pit. Then with Living Wax-Works, touring New England.  After the police broke THAT up, they say she lived--
Then, then Lemuel Struthers came along.  They say his advertiser used the girl's head for the shoe-polish posters; her hair's intensely black, you know--the Egyptian style.  Anyhow, he--eventually--married her.
Oh, well--at the pass we've come to nowadays, it doesn't matter,
And Newland's new cousin--Countess Olenska?  Was SHE at the ball too?
Especially after that silly business with Mrs. Rushworth,
It's not that I don't approve of the Mingotts' esprit de corps; but why Newland's engagement should be mixed up with that Olenska woman's comings and goings I don't see,
I'm thankful that Augusta Welland received us alone.
Oh, well, there's always a phase of family parties to be gone through when one gets engaged, and the sooner it's over the better.
Ah, how your grandfather Archer loved a good dinner, my dear Newland! Well--well--well ... I wonder what he would have said to all these foreign marriages!
No, she was NOT at the ball.
Ah--
Perhaps the Beauforts don't know her,
Mrs. Beaufort may not--but Beaufort certainly does, for she was seen walking up Fifth Avenue this afternoon with him by the whole of New York.
Mercy--
I wonder if she wears a round hat or a bonnet in the afternoon, At the Opera I know she had on dark blue velvet, perfectly plain and flat--like a night-gown.
Janey!
It was, at any rate, in better taste not to go to the ball,
I don't think it was a question of taste with her.  May said she meant to go, and then decided that the dress in question wasn't smart enough.
Poor Ellen, We must always bear in mind what an eccentric bringing-up Medora Manson gave her. What can you expect of a girl who was allowed to wear black satin at her coming-out ball?
Ah--don't I remember her in it! Poor girl!
It's odd, that she should have kept such an ugly name as Ellen.  I should have changed it to Elaine.
Why Elaine?
I don't know; it sounds more--more Polish,
It sounds more conspicuous; and that can hardly be what she wishes,
Why not? Why shouldn't she be conspicuous if she chooses?  Why should she slink about as if it were she who had disgraced herself?  She's 'poor Ellen' certainly, because she had the bad luck to make a wretched marriage; but I don't see that that's a reason for hiding her head as if she were the culprit.
That, I suppose, is the line the Mingotts mean to take.
I didn't have to wait for their cue, if that's what you mean, sir.  Madame Olenska has had an unhappy life: that doesn't make her an outcast.
There are rumours,
Oh, I know: the secretary,
Nonsense, mother; Janey's grown-up.  They say, don't they, that the secretary helped her to get away from her brute of a husband, who kept her practically a prisoner?  Well, what if he did?  I hope there isn't a man among us who wouldn't have done the same in such a case.
Perhaps ... that sauce ... just a little, after all--
I'm told she's looking for a house.  She means to live here.
I hear she means to get a divorce,
I hope she will!
You say the secretary merely helped her to get away, my dear fellow?  Well, he was still helping her a year later, then; for somebody met 'em living at Lausanne together.
Living together?  Well, why not?  Who had the right to make her life over if she hadn't?  I'm sick of the hypocrisy that would bury alive a woman of her age if her husband prefers to live with harlots.
Women ought to be free--as free as we are,
Well, apparently Count Olenski takes your view; for I never heard of his having lifted a finger to get his wife back.
Hang Ellen Olenska!
I'll go and see Louisa van der Luyden.
Don't tell me, all this modern newspaper rubbish about a New York aristocracy.  If there is one, neither the Mingotts nor the Mansons belong to it; no, nor the Newlands or the Chiverses either.  Our grandfathers and great-grandfathers were just respectable English or Dutch merchants, who came to the colonies to make their fortune, and stayed here because they did so well.  One of your great-grandfathers signed the Declaration, and another was a general on Washington's staff, and received General Burgoyne's sword after the battle of Saratoga.  These are things to be proud of, but they have nothing to do with rank or class.  New York has always been a commercial community, and there are not more than three families in it who can claim an aristocratic origin in the real sense of the word.
I wish you would go with me, Newland, Louisa is fond of you; and of course it's on account of dear May that I'm taking this step--and also because, if we don't all stand together, there'll be no such thing as Society left.
I shall first have to talk this over with my husband.
I think, I should like Henry to hear what you have told me.
If Mr. van der Luyden has finished reading the newspaper, please ask him to be kind enough to come.
Henry always enjoys seeing you, dear Adeline; and he will wish to congratulate Newland.
I had just finished reading the Times, In town my mornings are so much occupied that I find it more convenient to read the newspapers after luncheon.
Ah, there's a great deal to be said for that plan--indeed I think my uncle Egmont used to say he found it less agitating not to read the morning papers till after dinner,
Yes: my good father abhorred hurry.  But now we live in a constant rush,
But I hope you HAD finished your reading, Henry?
Quite--quite,
Then I should like Adeline to tell you--
Oh, it's really Newland's story,
Of course, Augusta Welland and Mary Mingott both felt that, especially in view of Newland's engagement, you and Henry OUGHT TO KNOW.
Ah--
You really think this is due to some--some intentional interference of Lawrence Lefferts's?
I'm certain of it, sir.  Larry has been going it rather harder than usual lately--if cousin Louisa won't mind my mentioning it--having rather a stiff affair with the postmaster's wife in their village, or some one of that sort; and whenever poor Gertrude Lefferts begins to suspect anything, and he's afraid of trouble, he gets up a fuss of this kind, to show how awfully moral he is, and talks at the top of his voice about the impertinence of inviting his wife to meet people he doesn't wish her to know.  He's simply using Madame Olenska as a lightning-rod; I've seen him try the same thing often before.
The LEFFERTSES!--
The LEFFERTSES!-- What would uncle Egmont have said of Lawrence Lefferts's pronouncing on anybody's social position? It shows what Society has come to.
We'll hope it has not quite come to that,
Ah, if only you and Louisa went out more!
Everybody in New York knows what you and cousin Louisa represent.  That's why Mrs. Mingott felt she ought not to allow this slight on Countess Olenska to pass without consulting you.
It is the principle that I dislike, As long as a member of a well-known family is backed up by that family it should be considered--final.
It seems so to me,
I had no idea, that things had come to such a pass. It occurs to me, my dear, that the Countess Olenska is already a sort of relation--through Medora Manson's first husband.  At any rate, she will be when Newland marries. Have you read this morning's Times, Newland?
Why, yes, sir,
If Louisa's health allowed her to dine out--I wish you would say to Mrs. Lovell Mingott--she and I would have been happy to--er--fill the places of the Lawrence Leffertses at her dinner.
As you know, this is impossible.
But Newland tells me he has read this morning's Times; therefore he has probably seen that Louisa's relative, the Duke of St. Austrey, arrives next week on the Russia.  He is coming to enter his new sloop, the Guinevere, in next summer's International Cup Race; and also to have a little canvasback shooting at Trevenna.
Before taking him down to Maryland we are inviting a few friends to meet him here--only a little dinner--with a reception afterward.  I am sure Louisa will be as glad as I am if Countess Olenska will let us include her among our guests.
I think I have Louisa's authority for saying that she will herself leave the invitation to dine when she drives out presently: with our cards--of course with our cards.
There is nothing to thank me for, dear Adeline; nothing whatever. This kind of thing must not happen in New York; it shall not, as long as I can help it,
No one but Patti ought to attempt the Sonnambula.
I want you to talk to me about May,
You knew the Duke before?
Oh, yes--we used to see him every winter at Nice.  He's very fond of gambling--he used to come to the house a great deal.
I think he's the dullest man I ever met.
May is a darling; I've seen no young girl in New York so handsome and so intelligent.  Are you very much in love with her?
As much as a man can be.
Do you think, then, there is a limit?
To being in love?  If there is, I haven't found it!
Ah--it's really and truly a romance?
The most romantic of romances!
How delightful!  And you found it all out for yourselves--it was not in the least arranged for you?
Have you forgotten, that in our country we don't allow our marriages to be arranged for us?
Yes, I'd forgotten.  You must forgive me if I sometimes make these mistakes.  I don't always remember that everything here is good that was--that was bad where I've come from.
I'm so sorry, but you ARE among friends here, you know.
Yes--I know.  Wherever I go I have that feeling.  That's why I came home.  I want to forget everything else, to become a complete American again, like the Mingotts and Wellands, and you and your delightful mother, and all the other good people here tonight.  Ah, here's May arriving, and you will want to hurry away to her,
Oh, I have so many rivals; you see she's already surrounded.  There's the Duke being introduced.
Then stay with me a little longer,
Yes, let me stay,
Tomorrow, then, after five--I shall expect you,
Tomorrow--
It was good of you, dear Newland, to devote yourself so unselfishly to Madame Olenska.  I told your cousin Henry he must really come to the rescue.
I've never seen May looking lovelier.  The Duke thinks her the handsomest girl in the room.
La signora e fuori; ma verra subito
Verra--verra.
How do you like my funny house? To me it's like heaven.
You've arranged it delightfully,
Oh, it's a poor little place.  My relations despise it.  But at any rate it's less gloomy than the van der Luydens'.
It's delicious--what you've done here,
I like the little house, but I suppose what I like is the blessedness of its being here, in my own country and my own town; and then, of being alone in it.
You like so much to be alone?
Yes; as long as my friends keep me from feeling lonely.
Nastasia will bring the tea presently, I see you've already chosen your corner.
This is the hour I like best--don't you?
I was afraid you'd forgotten the hour.  Beaufort must have been very engrossing.
Why--have you waited long?  Mr. Beaufort took me to see a number of houses--since it seems I'm not to be allowed to stay in this one.
I've never been in a city where there seems to be such a feeling against living in des quartiers excentriques.  What does it matter where one lives?  I'm told this street is respectable.
It's not fashionable.
Fashionable!  Do you all think so much of that?  Why not make one's own fashions?  But I suppose I've lived too independently; at any rate, I want to do what you all do--I want to feel cared for and safe.
That's what your friends want you to feel.  New York's an awfully safe place,
Yes, isn't it?  One feels that, Being here is like--like--being taken on a holiday when one has been a good little girl and done all one's lessons.
Last night, New York laid itself out for you.  The van der Luydens do nothing by halves.
No: how kind they are!  It was such a nice party.  Every one seems to have such an esteem for them.
The van der Luydens, are the most powerful influence in New York society. Unfortunately--owing to her health--they receive very seldom.
Isn't that perhaps the reason?
The reason--?
For their great influence; that they make themselves so rare.
But you'll explain these things to me--you'll tell me all I ought to know,
It's you who are telling me; opening my eyes to things I'd looked at so long that I'd ceased to see them.
Ah, then we can both help each other.  But I want help so much more. You must tell me just what to do.
There are plenty of people to tell you what to do,
Oh--all my aunts?  And my dear old Granny?
They're all a little vexed with me for setting up for myself--poor Granny especially.  She wanted to keep me with her; but I had to be free--
I think I understand how you feel, Still, your family can advise you; explain differences; show you the way.
Is New York such a labyrinth?  I thought it so straight up and down--like Fifth Avenue.  And with all the cross streets numbered!
If you knew how I like it for just THAT--the straight-up-and-downness, and the big honest labels on everything!
Everything may be labelled--but everybody is not.
Perhaps.  I may simplify too much--but you'll warn me if I do.
There are only two people here who make me feel as if they understood what I mean and could explain things to me: you and Mr. Beaufort.
I understand.  But just at first don't let go of your old friends' hands: I mean the older women, your Granny Mingott, Mrs. Welland, Mrs. van der Luyden.  They like and admire you--they want to help you.
Oh, I know--I know!  But on condition that they don't hear anything unpleasant.  Aunt Welland put it in those very words when I tried....  Does no one want to know the truth here, Mr. Archer?  The real loneliness is living among all these kind people who only ask one to pretend!
Madame Olenska!--Oh, don't, Ellen,
Does no one cry here, either?  I suppose there's no need to, in heaven,
My dear Countess, I've brought an old friend of mine to see you--Mrs. Struthers.  She wasn't asked to the party last night, and she wants to know you.
How kind!  How good of the Duke to think of me!
Of course I shall be too happy to come.
Rather
They'll go at once?
It's so delicious--waking every morning to smell lilies-of-the-valley in one's room!
Yesterday they came late.  I hadn't time in the morning--
But your remembering each day to send them makes me love them so much more than if you'd given a standing order, and they came every morning on the minute, like one's music-teacher--as I know Gertrude Lefferts's did, for instance, when she and Lawrence were engaged.
Ah--they would!
When I sent your lilies yesterday afternoon I saw some rather gorgeous yellow roses and packed them off to Madame Olenska.  Was that right?
How dear of you!  Anything of that kind delights her.  It's odd she didn't mention it: she lunched with us today, and spoke of Mr. Beaufort's having sent her wonderful orchids, and cousin Henry van der Luyden a whole hamper of carnations from Skuytercliff.  She seems so surprised to receive flowers.  Don't people send them in Europe?  She thinks it such a pretty custom.
Oh, well, no wonder mine were overshadowed by Beaufort's,
If you call it long!  Isabel Chivers and Reggie were engaged for two years: Grace and Thorley for nearly a year and a half.  Why aren't we very well off as we are?
Never, if we won't let them, I suppose,
We might be much better off.  We might be altogether together--we might travel.
That would be lovely,
As if the mere 'differently' didn't account for it!
Newland!  You're so original!
Original!  We're all as like each other as those dolls cut out of the same folded paper.  We're like patterns stencilled on a wall.  Can't you and I strike out for ourselves, May?
Mercy--shall we elope?
If you would--
You DO love me, Newland!  I'm so happy.
But then--why not be happier?
We can't behave like people in novels, though, can we?
Why not--why not--why not?
I'm not clever enough to argue with you.  But that kind of thing is rather--vulgar, isn't it?
Are you so much afraid, then, of being vulgar?
Of course I should hate it--so would you,
Oh, did I tell you that I showed Ellen my ring?  She thinks it the most beautiful setting she ever saw.  There's nothing like it in the rue de la Paix, she said.  I do love you, Newland, for being so artistic!
Sameness--sameness!
What learned things you read!
Well--?
Mother's very angry.
Angry?  With whom?  About what?
Miss Sophy Jackson has just been here.  She brought word that her brother would come in after dinner: she couldn't say very much, because he forbade her to: he wishes to give all the details himself.  He's with cousin Louisa van der Luyden now.
For heaven's sake, my dear girl, try a fresh start.  It would take an omniscient Deity to know what you're talking about.
It's not a time to be profane, Newland....  Mother feels badly enough about your not going to church ...
NEWLAND!  Do listen.  Your friend Madame Olenska was at Mrs. Lemuel Struthers's party last night: she went there with the Duke and Mr. Beaufort.
Well, what of it?  I knew she meant to.
You knew she meant to--and you didn't try to stop her?  To warn her?
Stop her?  Warn her?
I'm not engaged to be married to the Countess Olenska!
You're marrying into her family.
Oh, family--family!
Newland--don't you care about Family?
Not a brass farthing.
Nor about what cousin Louisa van der Luyden will think?
Not the half of one--if she thinks such old maid's rubbish.
Mother is not an old maid,
Hang Countess Olenska!  Don't be a goose, Janey--I'm not her keeper.
No; but you DID ask the Wellands to announce your engagement sooner so that we might all back her up; and if it hadn't been for that cousin Louisa would never have invited her to the dinner for the Duke.
Well--what harm was there in inviting her?  She was the best-looking woman in the room; she made the dinner a little less funereal than the usual van der Luyden banquet.
You know cousin Henry asked her to please you: he persuaded cousin Louisa.  And now they're so upset that they're going back to Skuytercliff tomorrow.  I think, Newland, you'd better come down.  You don't seem to understand how mother feels.
Has Janey told you?
Yes.
But I can't take it very seriously.
Not the fact of having offended cousin Louisa and cousin Henry?
The fact that they can be offended by such a trifle as Countess Olenska's going to the house of a woman they consider common.
Consider--!
Well, who is; but who has good music, and amuses people on Sunday evenings, when the whole of New York is dying of inanition.
Good music?  All I know is, there was a woman who got up on a table and sang the things they sing at the places you go to in Paris.  There was smoking and champagne.
Well--that kind of thing happens in other places, and the world still goes on.
I don't suppose, dear, you're really defending the French Sunday?
I've heard you often enough, mother, grumble at the English Sunday when we've been in London.
New York is neither Paris nor London.
Oh, no, it's not!
You mean, I suppose, that society here is not as brilliant?  You're right, I daresay; but we belong here, and people should respect our ways when they come among us.  Ellen Olenska especially: she came back to get away from the kind of life people lead in brilliant societies.
I was going to put on my bonnet and ask you to take me to see cousin Louisa for a moment before dinner.
I thought you might explain to her what you've just said: that society abroad is different ... that people are not as particular, and that Madame Olenska may not have realised how we feel about such things.  It would be, you know, dear,
in Madame Olenska's interest if you did.
Dearest mother, I really don't see how we're concerned in the matter. The Duke took Madame Olenska to Mrs. Struthers's--in fact he brought Mrs. Struthers to call on her.  I was there when they came.  If the van der Luydens want to quarrel with anybody, the real culprit is under their own roof.
Quarrel?  Newland, did you ever know of cousin Henry's quarrelling? Besides, the Duke's his guest; and a stranger too.  Strangers don't discriminate: how should they?  Countess Olenska is a New Yorker, and should have respected the feelings of New York.
Well, then, if they must have a victim, you have my leave to throw Madame Olenska to them, I don't see myself--or you either--offering ourselves up to expiate her crimes.
Oh, of course you see only the Mingott side,
Mr. Henry van der Luyden.
Another lamp,
We were just talking about you, sir,
And the Countess Olenska.
Ah--a charming woman.  I have just been to see her,
She has a real gift for arranging flowers.  I had sent her a few carnations from Skuytercliff, and I was astonished.  Instead of massing them in big bunches as our head-gardener does, she had scattered them about loosely, here and there ... I can't say how.  The Duke had told me: he said:  'Go and see how cleverly she's arranged her drawing-room.'  And she has.  I should really like to take Louisa to see her, if the neighbourhood were not so--unpleasant.
The fact is, the fact is, I dropped in to thank her for the very pretty note she wrote me about my flowers; and also--but this is between ourselves, of course--to give her a friendly warning about allowing the Duke to carry her off to parties with him.  I don't know if you've heard--
Has the Duke been carrying her off to parties?
You know what these English grandees are.  They're all alike.  Louisa and I are very fond of our cousin--but it's hopeless to expect people who are accustomed to the European courts to trouble themselves about our little republican distinctions.  The Duke goes where he's amused.
Yes--it seems he took her with him last night to Mrs. Lemuel Struthers's.  Sillerton Jackson has just been to us with the foolish story, and Louisa was rather troubled.  So I thought the shortest way was to go straight to Countess Olenska and explain--by the merest hint, you know--how we feel in New York about certain things.  I felt I might, without indelicacy, because the evening she dined with us she rather suggested ... rather let me see that she would be grateful for guidance.  And she WAS.
How kind you both are, dear Henry--always!  Newland will particularly appreciate what you have done because of dear May and his new relations.
Immensely, sir. But I was sure you'd like Madame Olenska.
I never ask to my house, my dear Newland, any one whom I do not like. And so I have just told Sillerton Jackson.
But Louisa will be waiting.  We are dining early, to take the Duke to the Opera.
Gracious--how romantic!
Provided it all turns out for the best, Newland, you must stay and see Sillerton Jackson when he comes this evening: I really shan't know what to say to him.
Poor mother!  But he won't come--
My dear sir-- I have sent for you to go into a little matter; a matter which, for the moment, I prefer not to mention either to Mr. Skipworth or Mr. Redwood.
For family reasons--
The Mingott family, Mrs. Manson Mingott sent for me yesterday.  Her grand-daughter the Countess Olenska wishes to sue her husband for divorce.  Certain papers have been placed in my hands. In view of your prospective alliance with the family I should like to consult you--to consider the case with you--before taking any farther steps.
If you will run your eye over these papers--
I beg your pardon, sir; but just because of the prospective relationship, I should prefer your consulting Mr. Skipworth or Mr. Redwood.
I respect your scruple, sir; but in this case I believe true delicacy requires you to do as I ask.  Indeed, the suggestion is not mine but Mrs. Manson Mingott's and her son's.  I have seen Lovell Mingott; and also Mr. Welland.  They all named you.
Her uncles ought to deal with this,
They have.  The matter has been gone into by the family.  They are opposed to the Countess's idea; but she is firm, and insists on a legal opinion.
Does she want to marry again?
I believe it is suggested; but she denies it.
Then--
Will you oblige me, Mr. Archer, by first looking through these papers? Afterward, when we have talked the case over, I will give you my opinion.
You know, when it comes to the point, your parents have always let you have your way ever since you were a little girl,
Yes; and that's what makes it so hard to refuse the very last thing they'll ever ask of me as a little girl.
Here are the letters, sir.  If you wish, I'll see Madame Olenska,
Thank you--thank you, Mr. Archer.  Come and dine with me tonight if you're free, and we'll go into the matter afterward: in case you wish to call on our client tomorrow.
Are we only Pharisees after all?
The whole family are against a divorce.  And I think rightly.
But why, sir?  If there ever was a case--
Well--what's the use?  SHE'S here--he's there; the Atlantic's between them.  She'll never get back a dollar more of her money than what he's voluntarily returned to her: their damned heathen marriage settlements take precious good care of that.  As things go over there, Olenski's acted generously: he might have turned her out without a penny.
I understand, though, that she attaches no importance to the money.  Therefore, as the family say, why not let well enough alone?
I think that's for her to decide.
H'm--have you considered the consequences if she decides for divorce?
You mean the threat in her husband's letter?  What weight would that carry?  It's no more than the vague charge of an angry blackguard.
Yes; but it might make some unpleasant talk if he really defends the suit.
Unpleasant--!
Divorce is always unpleasant.
You agree with me?
Naturally,
Well, then, I may count on you; the Mingotts may count on you; to use your influence against the idea?
I can't pledge myself till I've seen the Countess Olenska,
Mr. Archer, I don't understand you.  Do you want to marry into a family with a scandalous divorce-suit hanging over it?
I don't think that has anything to do with the case.
You may be sure, sir, that I shan't commit myself till I've reported to you; what I meant was that I'd rather not give an opinion till I've heard what Madame Olenska has to say.
When I was a girl, we knew everybody between the Battery and Canal Street; and only the people one knew had carriages.  It was perfectly easy to place any one then; now one can't tell, and I prefer not to try.
Lord love us--three whole days at Skuytercliff! You'd better take all your furs, and a hot-water-bottle.
Why?  Is the house so cold?
No; but the missus is,
But I thought her so kind.  She came herself to invite me. Granny says I must certainly go.
Granny would, of course.  And I say it's a shame you're going to miss the little oyster supper I'd planned for you at Delmonico's next Sunday, with Campanini and Scalchi and a lot of jolly people.
Ah--that does tempt me!  Except the other evening at Mrs. Struthers's I've not met a single artist since I've been here.
What kind of artists?  I know one or two painters, very good fellows, that I could bring to see you if you'd allow me,
Painters?  Are there painters in New York?
That would be charming.  But I was really thinking of dramatic artists, singers, actors, musicians.  My husband's house was always full of them.
I do think, that the imprevu adds to one's enjoyment.  It's perhaps a mistake to see the same people every day.
It's confoundedly dull, anyhow; New York is dying of dullness, And when I try to liven it up for you, you go back on me.  Come--think better of it!  Sunday is your last chance, for Campanini leaves next week for Baltimore and Philadelphia; and I've a private room, and a Steinway, and they'll sing all night for me.
How delicious!  May I think it over, and write to you tomorrow morning?
Why not now?
It's too serious a question to decide at this late hour.
Do you call it late?
Yes; because I have still to talk business with Mr. Archer for a little while.
Ah,
I say, Newland, if you can persuade the Countess to stop in town of course you're included in the supper,
You know painters, then?  You live in their milieu?
Oh, not exactly.  I don't know that the arts have a milieu here, any of them; they're more like a very thinly settled outskirt.
But you care for such things?
Immensely.  When I'm in Paris or London I never miss an exhibition.  I try to keep up.
I used to care immensely too: my life was full of such things.  But now I want to try not to.
You want to try not to?
Yes: I want to cast off all my old life, to become just like everybody else here.
You'll never be like everybody else,
Ah, don't say that.  If you knew how I hate to be different!
I want to get away from it all,
I know.  Mr. Letterblair has told me.
Ah?
That's the reason I've come.  He asked me to--you see I'm in the firm.
You mean you can manage it for me?  I can talk to you instead of Mr. Letterblair?  Oh, that will be so much easier!
I am here to talk about it,
Now we're coming to hard facts,
I want to be free; I want to wipe out all the past.
I understand that.
Then you'll help me?
First-- perhaps I ought to know a little more.
You know about my husband--my life with him?
Well--then--what more is there?  In this country are such things tolerated?  I'm a Protestant--our church does not forbid divorce in such cases.
Certainly not.
I've looked through the papers you gave to Mr. Letterblair,
Well--can there be anything more abominable?
No.
Of course you know, that if your husband chooses to fight the case--as he threatens to--
Yes--?
He can say things--things that might be unpl--might be disagreeable to you: say them publicly, so that they would get about, and harm you even if--
If--?
I mean: no matter how unfounded they were.
What harm could such accusations, even if he made them publicly, do me here?
New York society is a very small world compared with the one you've lived in.  And it's ruled, in spite of appearances, by a few people with--well, rather old-fashioned ideas.
Our ideas about marriage and divorce are particularly old-fashioned.  Our legislation favours divorce--our social customs don't.
Never?
Well--not if the woman, however injured, however irreproachable, has appearances in the least degree against her, has exposed herself by any unconventional action to--to offensive insinuations--
Yes, that's what my family tell me.
It's not unnatural--
OUR family,
For you'll be my cousin soon,
I hope so.
And you take their view?
Sincerely--
Sincerely, then--what should you gain that would compensate for the possibility--the certainty--of a lot of beastly talk?
But my freedom--is that nothing?
But aren't you as free as air as it is? Who can touch you?  Mr. Letterblair tells me the financial question has been settled--
Oh, yes,
Well, then: is it worth while to risk what may be infinitely disagreeable and painful?  Think of the newspapers--their vileness! It's all stupid and narrow and unjust--but one can't make over society.
No,
The individual, in such cases, is nearly always sacrificed to what is supposed to be the collective interest: people cling to any convention that keeps the family together--protects the children, if there are any,
It's my business, you know, to help you to see these things as the people who are fondest of you see them.  The Mingotts, the Wellands, the van der Luydens, all your friends and relations: if I didn't show you honestly how they judge such questions, it wouldn't be fair of me, would it?
No; it wouldn't be fair.
Very well; I will do what you wish,
I--I do want to help you,
You do help me.  Good night, my cousin.
Silly goose!  I told her myself what nonsense it was.  Wanting to pass herself off as Ellen Mingott and an old maid, when she has the luck to be a married woman and a Countess!
Do you think, he will send her a bunch of yellow roses tomorrow morning?
I was thinking of that too--I was going to leave the theatre in order to take the picture away with me,
What do you do while May is away?
I stick to my work,
I have done what you wished--what you advised,
Ah--I'm glad,
I understand--that you were right, but sometimes life is difficult ...  perplexing...
I know.
And I wanted to tell you that I DO feel you were right; and that I'm grateful to you,
Oh, well so have I for that matter, and I'll be the Industrious Apprentice too. Look here, what I'm really after is the name of the dark lady in that swell box of yours--with the Beauforts, wasn't she?  The one your friend Lefferts seems so smitten by.
It's not for an interview, I hope?
Well--not for the press; just for myself, The fact is she's a neighbour of mine--queer quarter for such a beauty to settle in--and she's been awfully kind to my little boy, who fell down her area chasing his kitten, and gave himself a nasty cut.  She rushed in bareheaded, carrying him in her arms, with his knee all beautifully bandaged, and was so sympathetic and beautiful that my wife was too dazzled to ask her name.
That is the Countess Olenska--a granddaughter of old Mrs. Mingott's.
Whew--a Countess! Well, I didn't know Countesses were so neighbourly.  Mingotts ain't.
They would be, if you'd let them.
Ah, well--
I wonder, how a Countess happens to live in our slum?
Because she doesn't care a hang about where she lives--or about any of our little social sign-posts,
H'm--been in bigger places, I suppose, Well, here's my corner.
The fact is, life isn't much a fit for either of us, I'm down and out; nothing to be done about it.  I've got only one ware to produce, and there's no market for it here, and won't be in my time.  But you're free and you're well-off.  Why don't you get into touch?  There's only one way to do it: to go into politics.
Look at the career of the honest man in American politics!  They don't want us.
Who's 'they'?  Why don't you all get together and be 'they' yourselves?
Culture!  Yes--if we had it!  But there are just a few little local patches, dying out here and there for lack of--well, hoeing and cross-fertilising: the last remnants of the old European tradition that your forebears brought with them.  But you're in a pitiful little minority: you've got no centre, no competition, no audience.  You're like the pictures on the walls of a deserted house:  'The Portrait of a Gentleman.'  You'll never amount to anything, any of you, till you roll up your sleeves and get right down into the muck.  That, or emigrate ... God!  If I could emigrate ...
Mr. van der Luyden, is in, sir; but my impression is that he is either finishing his nap or else reading yesterday's Evening Post.  I heard him say, sir, on his return from church this morning, that he intended to look through the Evening Post after luncheon; if you like, sir, I might go to the library door and listen--
Ah, you've come!
I came to see what you were running away from.
Ah, well--you will see, presently.
Why--do you mean that you've been overtaken?
Shall we walk on?  I'm so cold after the sermon.  And what does it matter, now you're here to protect me?
Ellen--what is it?  You must tell me.
Oh, presently--let's run a race first: my feet are freezing to the ground,
I knew you'd come!
That shows you wanted me to,
Where did you come from?
It was because I got your note.
May asked you to take care of me.
I didn't need any asking.
You mean--I'm so evidently helpless and defenceless?  What a poor thing you must all think me!  But women here seem not--seem never to feel the need: any more than the blessed in heaven.
What sort of a need?
Ah, don't ask me!  I don't speak your language,
What did I come for, if I don't speak yours?
Oh, my friend--!
Ellen--why won't you tell me what's happened?
Does anything ever happen in heaven?
I will tell you--but where, where, where? One can't be alone for a minute in that great seminary of a house, with all the doors wide open, and always a servant bringing tea, or a log for the fire, or the newspaper!  Is there nowhere in an American house where one may be by one's self?  You're so shy, and yet you're so public.  I always feel as if I were in the convent again--or on the stage, before a dreadfully polite audience that never applauds.
Ah, you don't like us!
Why--the house is open!
No; only for today, at least.  I wanted to see it, and Mr. van der Luyden had the fire lit and the windows opened, so that we might stop there on the way back from church this morning.
It's still unlocked--what luck! Come in and we can have a quiet talk.  Mrs. van der Luyden has driven over to see her old aunts at Rhinebeck and we shan't be missed at the house for another hour.
You're laughing now; but when you wrote me you were unhappy,
Yes. But I can't feel unhappy when you're here.
I sha'n't be here long,
No; I know.  But I'm improvident: I live in the moment when I'm happy.
Ellen, if I'm really a help to you--if you really wanted me to come--tell me what's wrong, tell me what it is you're running away from,
Ah--!
So that was it?
I didn't know he was here,
Hallo, Beaufort--this way!  Madame Olenska was expecting you,
If only this new dodge for talking along a wire had been a little bit nearer perfection I might have told you all this from town, and been toasting my toes before the club fire at this minute, instead of tramping after you through the snow,
Mercy, how pale you look, Newland!
Newland, dear, I've noticed lately that you've been coughing; I do hope you're not letting yourself be overworked?
Newland--has anything happened?
Yes--I found I had to see you,
What is it?
Nothing.
Tell me what you do all day,
You see, my dear fellow, we camp--we literally camp.  I tell my wife and May that I want to teach them how to rough it.
You can't be too careful, especially toward spring, If I'd only been as prudent at your age May would have been dancing at the Assemblies now, instead of spending her winters in a wilderness with an old invalid.
Oh, but I love it here, Papa; you know I do.  If only Newland could stay I should like it a thousand times better than New York.
But European society is not given to divorce: Countess Olenska thought she would be conforming to American ideas in asking for her freedom.
I'm always thinking of May,
We might be seeing it all this spring--even the Easter ceremonies at Seville,
Easter in Seville?  And it will be Lent next week!
Why shouldn't we be married in Lent?
Of course I didn't mean that, dearest; but soon after Easter--so that we could sail at the end of April.  I know I could arrange it at the office.
Oh, do go on, Newland; I do love your descriptions.
But why should they be only descriptions?  Why shouldn't we make them real?
We shall, dearest, of course; next year.
Don't you want them to be real sooner?  Can't I persuade you to break away now?
Why should we dream away another year?  Look at me, dear!  Don't you understand how I want you for my wife?
I'm not sure if I DO understand, Is it--is it because you're not certain of continuing to care for me?
My God--perhaps--I don't know,
If that is it--is there some one else?
Some one else--between you and me?
Let us talk frankly, Newland.  Sometimes I've felt a difference in you; especially since our engagement has been announced.
Dear--what madness!
If it is, it won't hurt us to talk about it.
Or even if it's true: why shouldn't we speak of it?  You might so easily have made a mistake.
Mistakes are always easy to make; but if I had made one of the kind you suggest, is it likely that I should be imploring you to hasten our marriage?
Yes, You might want--once for all--to settle the question: it's one way.
Well--?
You mustn't think that a girl knows as little as her parents imagine.  One hears and one notices--one has one's feelings and ideas.  And of course, long before you told me that you cared for me, I'd known that there was some one else you were interested in; every one was talking about it two years ago at Newport.  And once I saw you sitting together on the verandah at a dance--and when she came back into the house her face was sad, and I felt sorry for her; I remembered it afterward, when we were engaged.
My dear child--was THAT it?  If you only knew the truth!
Then there is a truth I don't know?
I meant, the truth about the old story you speak of.
But that's what I want to know, Newland--what I ought to know.  I couldn't have my happiness made out of a wrong--an unfairness--to somebody else.  And I want to believe that it would be the same with you.  What sort of a life could we build on such foundations?
I've wanted to say this for a long time, I've wanted to tell you that, when two people really love each other, I understand that there may be situations which make it right that they should--should go against public opinion.  And if you feel yourself in any way pledged ... pledged to the person we've spoken of ...  and if there is any way ... any way in which you can fulfill your pledge ... even by her getting a divorce ...  Newland, don't give her up because of me!
There is no pledge--no obligation whatever--of the kind you think.  Such cases don't always--present themselves quite as simply as ... But that's no matter ... I love your generosity, because I feel as you do about those things ... I feel that each case must be judged individually, on its own merits ... irrespective of stupid conventionalities ... I mean, each woman's right to her liberty--
Since you understand so many things, dearest, can't you go a little farther, and understand the uselessness of our submitting to another form of the same foolish conventionalities?  If there's no one and nothing between us, isn't that an argument for marrying quickly, rather than for more delay?
Your cousin the Countess called on mother while you were away,
She had on a black velvet polonaise with jet buttons, and a tiny green monkey muff; I never saw her so stylishly dressed, She came alone, early on Sunday afternoon; luckily the fire was lit in the drawing-room.  She had one of those new card-cases.  She said she wanted to know us because you'd been so good to her.
Madame Olenska always takes that tone about her friends.  She's very happy at being among her own people again.
Yes, so she told us, I must say she seems thankful to be here.
I hope you liked her, mother.
She certainly lays herself out to please, even when she is calling on an old lady.
Mother doesn't think her simple,
It's just my old-fashioned feeling; dear May is my ideal,
Ah, they're not alike.
Ah, ah--so you kicked over the traces, did you?  And I suppose Augusta and Welland pulled long faces, and behaved as if the end of the world had come?  But little May--she knew better, I'll be bound?
I hoped she did; but after all she wouldn't agree to what I'd gone down to ask for.
Wouldn't she indeed?  And what was that?
I wanted to get her to promise that we should be married in April. What's the use of our wasting another year?
'Ask Mamma,' I suppose--the usual story.  Ah, these Mingotts--all alike!  Born in a rut, and you can't root 'em out of it.  When I built this house you'd have thought I was moving to California!  Nobody ever HAD built above Fortieth Street--no, says I, nor above the Battery either, before Christopher Columbus discovered America.  No, no; not one of them wants to be different; they're as scared of it as the small-pox.  Ah, my dear Mr. Archer, I thank my stars I'm nothing but a vulgar Spicer; but there's not one of my own children that takes after me but my little Ellen.
Now, why in the world didn't you marry my little Ellen?
For one thing, she wasn't there to be married.
No--to be sure; more's the pity.  And now it's too late; her life is finished.
Can't I persuade you to use your influence with the Wellands, Mrs. Mingott?  I wasn't made for long engagements.
No; I can see that.  You've got a quick eye.  When you were a little boy I've no doubt you liked to be helped first.
Ah, here's my Ellen now!
I was just saying to him, my dear:  'Now, why didn't you marry my little Ellen?'
And what did he answer?
Oh, my darling, I leave you to find that out!  He's been down to Florida to see his sweetheart.
Yes, I know.
I went to see your mother, to ask where you'd gone.  I sent a note that you never answered, and I was afraid you were ill.
And of course once you were there you never thought of me again!
If she still needs me, she's determined not to let me see it,
Look at him--in such hot haste to get married that he took French leave and rushed down to implore the silly girl on his knees!  That's something like a lover--that's the way handsome Bob Spicer carried off my poor mother; and then got tired of her before I was weaned--though they only had to wait eight months for me!  But there--you're not a Spicer, young man; luckily for you and for May.  It's only my poor Ellen that has kept any of their wicked blood; the rest of them are all model Mingotts,
Surely, Granny, we can persuade them between us to do as he wishes.
When can I see you?
Whenever you like; but it must be soon if you want to see the little house again.  I am moving next week.
Tomorrow evening?
Tomorrow; yes; but early.  I'm going out.
Very well; tomorrow evening,
Gia!
What they must have cost at this season--though of course it's the sentiment one cares about!
Dear Mr. Archer--almost my cousin Newland! I am the Marchioness Manson.
My Ellen has taken me in for a few days.  I came from Cuba, where I have been spending the winter with Spanish friends--such delightful distinguished people: the highest nobility of old Castile--how I wish you could know them!  But I was called away by our dear great friend here, Dr. Carver.  You don't know Dr. Agathon Carver, founder of the Valley of Love Community?
Ah, New York--New York--how little the life of the spirit has reached it!  But I see you do know Mr. Winsett.
Oh, yes--I reached him some time ago; but not by that route,
How do you know, Mr. Winsett?  The spirit bloweth where it listeth.
List--oh, list!
But do sit down, Mr. Archer.  We four have been having a delightful little dinner together, and my child has gone up to dress.  She expects you; she will be down in a moment.  We were just admiring these marvellous flowers, which will surprise her when she reappears.
I'm afraid I must be off.  Please tell Madame Olenska that we shall all feel lost when she abandons our street.  This house has been an oasis.
Ah, but she won't abandon YOU.  Poetry and art are the breath of life to her.  It IS poetry you write, Mr. Winsett?
Well, no; but I sometimes read it,
A caustic spirit--un peu sauvage.  But so witty; Dr. Carver, you DO think him witty?
I never think of wit,
Ah--ah--you never think of wit!  How merciless he is to us weak mortals, Mr. Archer!  But he lives only in the life of the spirit; and tonight he is mentally preparing the lecture he is to deliver presently at Mrs. Blenker's.  Dr. Carver, would there be time, before you start for the Blenkers' to explain to Mr. Archer your illuminating discovery of the Direct Contact?  But no; I see it is nearly nine o'clock, and we have no right to detain you while so many are waiting for your message.
I shall see you later, dear friend?
As soon as Ellen's carriage comes I will join you; I do hope the lecture won't have begun.
Perhaps, if this young gentleman is interested in my experiences, Mrs. Blenker might allow you to bring him with you?
Oh, dear friend, if it were possible--I am sure she would be too happy.  But I fear my Ellen counts on Mr. Archer herself.
That, is unfortunate--but here is my card.
Ellen will be down in a moment; and before she comes, I am so glad of this quiet moment with you.
I know everything, dear Mr. Archer--my child has told me all you have done for her.  Your wise advice: your courageous firmness--thank heaven it was not too late!
Madame Olenska exaggerates; I simply gave her a legal opinion, as she asked me to.
Ah, but in doing it--in doing it you were the unconscious instrument of--of--what word have we moderns for Providence, Mr. Archer? Little did you know that at that very moment I was being appealed to: being approached, in fact--from the other side of the Atlantic!
By the Count himself--my poor, mad, foolish Olenski; who asks only to take her back on her own terms.
Good God!
You are horrified?  Yes, of course; I understand.  I don't defend poor Stanislas, though he has always called me his best friend.  He does not defend himself--he casts himself at her feet: in my person.
I have his letter here.
A letter?--Has Madame Olenska seen it?
Time--time; I must have time.  I know my Ellen--haughty, intractable; shall I say, just a shade unforgiving?
But, good heavens, to forgive is one thing; to go back into that hell--
Ah, yes, So she describes it--my sensitive child!  But on the material side, Mr. Archer, if one may stoop to consider such things; do you know what she is giving up? Those roses there on the sofa--acres like them, under glass and in the open, in his matchless terraced gardens at Nice!  Jewels--historic pearls: the Sobieski emeralds--sables,--but she cares nothing for all these!  Art and beauty, those she does care for, she lives for, as I always have; and those also surrounded her.  Pictures, priceless furniture, music, brilliant conversation--ah, that, my dear young man, if you'll excuse me, is what you've no conception of here!  And she had it all; and the homage of the greatest.  She tells me she is not thought handsome in New York--good heavens!  Her portrait has been painted nine times; the greatest artists in Europe have begged for the privilege.  Are these things nothing?  And the remorse of an adoring husband?
She knows nothing yet--of all this?
Nothing directly--but does she suspect?  Who can tell?  The truth is, Mr. Archer, I have been waiting to see you.  From the moment I heard of the firm stand you had taken, and of your influence over her, I hoped it might be possible to count on your support--to convince you ...
That she ought to go back?  I would rather see her dead!
Ah,
Here she comes, Am I to understand that you prefer THAT, Mr. Archer?  After all, marriage is marriage ... and my niece is still a wife...
What are you two plotting together, aunt Medora?
We were saying, my dear, that here was something beautiful to surprise you with,
Ah, who is ridiculous enough to send me a bouquet?  Why a bouquet?  And why tonight of all nights?  I am not going to a ball; I am not a girl engaged to be married.  But some people are always ridiculous.
Nastasia!
Here--throw this into the dustbin! But no--it's not the fault of the poor flowers.  Tell the boy to carry them to the house three doors away, the house of Mr. Winsett, the dark gentleman who dined here.  His wife is ill--they may give her pleasure ... The boy is out, you say?  Then, my dear one, run yourself; here, put my cloak over you and fly.  I want the thing out of the house immediately!  And, as you live, don't say they come from me!
And you two--have you made friends!
It's for Mr. Archer to say, darling; he has waited patiently while you were dressing.
Yes--I gave you time enough: my hair wouldn't go, But that reminds me: I see Dr. Carver is gone, and you'll be late at the Blenkers'.  Mr. Archer, will you put my aunt in the carriage?
Mind, the carriage is to be back for me at ten!
There's time for a cigarette.
What do you think of me in a temper?
It makes me understand what your aunt has been saying about you.
I knew she'd been talking about me.  Well?
She said you were used to all kinds of things--splendours and amusements and excitements--that we could never hope to give you here.
Medora is incorrigibly romantic.  It has made up to her for so many things!
Is your aunt's romanticism always consistent with accuracy?
You mean: does she speak the truth?
Well, I'll tell you: in almost everything she says, there's something true and something untrue.  But why do you ask?  What has she been telling you?
She says--she pretends that Count Olenski has asked her to persuade you to go back to him.
You knew, then?
She has hinted about a letter: poor darling!  Medora's hints--
Is it at your husband's request that she has arrived here suddenly?
There again: one can't tell.  She told me she had had a 'spiritual summons,' whatever that is, from Dr. Carver.  I'm afraid she's going to marry Dr. Carver ...  poor Medora, there's always some one she wants to marry. But perhaps the people in Cuba just got tired of her!  I think she was with them as a sort of paid companion.  Really, I don't know why she came.
But you do believe she has a letter from your husband?
After all, it was to be expected.
You know that your aunt believes you will go back?
Many cruel things have been believed of me,
Oh, Ellen--forgive me; I'm a fool and a brute!
You are horribly nervous; you have your own troubles.  I know you think the Wellands are unreasonable about your marriage, and of course I agree with you.  In Europe people don't understand our long American engagements; I suppose they are not as calm as we are.
Yes, I went south to ask May to marry me after Easter.  There's no reason why we shouldn't be married then.
And May adores you--and yet you couldn't convince her?  I thought her too intelligent to be the slave of such absurd superstitions.
She IS too intelligent--she's not their slave.
Well, then--I don't understand.
We had a frank talk--almost the first.  She thinks my impatience a bad sign.
Merciful heavens--a bad sign?
She thinks it means that I can't trust myself to go on caring for her. She thinks, in short, I want to marry her at once to get away from some one that I--care for more.
But if she thinks that--why isn't she in a hurry too?
Because she's not like that: she's so much nobler.  She insists all the more on the long engagement, to give me time--
Time to give her up for the other woman?
If I want to.
That IS noble,
Yes.  But it's ridiculous.
Ridiculous?  Because you don't care for any one else?
Because I don't mean to marry any one else.
Ah.
This other woman--does she love you?
Oh, there's no other woman; I mean, the person that May was thinking of is--was never--
Then, why, after all, are you in such haste?
There's your carriage,
Yes; I suppose I must be going.
You're going to Mrs. Struthers's?
Yes.
I must go where I am invited, or I should be too lonely.  Why not come with me?
May guessed the truth, There is another woman--but not the one she thinks.
Ah, don't make love to me!  Too many people have done that,
I have never made love to you, and I never shall.  But you are the woman I would have married if it had been possible for either of us.
Possible for either of us?
And you say that--when it's you who've made it impossible?
I'VE made it impossible--?
You, you, YOU! Isn't it you who made me give up divorcing--give it up because you showed me how selfish and wicked it was, how one must sacrifice one's self to preserve the dignity of marriage ... and to spare one's family the publicity, the scandal?  And because my family was going to be your family--for May's sake and for yours--I did what you told me, what you proved to me that I ought to do.  Ah,
I've made no secret of having done it for you!
Good God, When I thought--
You thought?
Ah, don't ask me what I thought!
I do ask you.
Well, then: there were things in that letter you asked me to read--
My husband's letter?
Yes.
I had nothing to fear from that letter: absolutely nothing!  All I feared was to bring notoriety, scandal, on the family--on you and May.
Good God,
At least I loved you--
Ellen!  What madness!  Why are you crying?  Nothing's done that can't be undone.  I'm still free, and you're going to be.
Ah, my poor Newland--I suppose this had to be.  But it doesn't in the least alter things,
It alters the whole of life for me.
No, no--it mustn't, it can't.  You're engaged to May Welland; and I'm married.
Nonsense!  It's too late for that sort of thing.  We've no right to lie to other people or to ourselves.  We won't talk of your marriage; but do you see me marrying May after this?
I don't see you, putting that question to May. Do you?
It's too late to do anything else.
You say that because it's the easiest thing to say at this moment--not because it's true.  In reality it's too late to do anything but what we'd both decided on.
Ah, I don't understand you!
You don't understand because you haven't yet guessed how you've changed things for me: oh, from the first--long before I knew all you'd done.
All I'd done?
Yes.  I was perfectly unconscious at first that people here were shy of me--that they thought I was a dreadful sort of person.  It seems they had even refused to meet me at dinner.  I found that out afterward; and how you'd made your mother go with you to the van der Luydens'; and how you'd insisted on announcing your engagement at the Beaufort ball, so that I might have two families to stand by me instead of one--
Just imagine, how stupid and unobservant I was!  I knew nothing of all this till Granny blurted it out one day.  New York simply meant peace and freedom to me: it was coming home.  And I was so happy at being among my own people that every one I met seemed kind and good, and glad to see me.  But from the very beginning, I felt there was no one as kind as you; no one who gave me reasons that I understood for doing what at first seemed so hard and--unnecessary.  The very good people didn't convince me; I felt they'd never been tempted.  But you knew; you understood; you had felt the world outside tugging at one with all its golden hands--and yet you hated the things it asks of one; you hated happiness bought by disloyalty and cruelty and indifference.  That was what I'd never known before--and it's better than anything I've known.
Ah, don't let us undo what you've done! I can't go back now to that other way of thinking.  I can't love you unless I give you up.
And Beaufort?  Is he to replace me?
He's waiting for you now at Mrs. Struthers's; why don't you go to him?
I shall not go out this evening; tell the carriage to go and fetch the Signora Marchesa,
Why this sacrifice?  Since you tell me that you're lonely I've no right to keep you from your friends.
I shan't be lonely now.  I WAS lonely; I WAS afraid.  But the emptiness and the darkness are gone; when I turn back into myself now I'm like a child going at night into a room where there's always a light.
I don't understand you!
Yet you understand May!
May is ready to give me up.
What!  Three days after you've entreated her on your knees to hasten your marriage?
She's refused; that gives me the right--
Ah, you've taught me what an ugly word that is,
If we do this now it will be worse afterward--worse for every one--
No--no--no!
The lady was very happy at the flowers, She thought it was her signor marito who had sent them, and she cried a little and said it was a folly.
Newland!  I hope there's no bad news in that telegram?  I waited on purpose, in case--
Look here--what day is Easter this year?
Easter?  Newland! Why, of course, the first week in April.  Why?
The first week?
The first week, did you say?
For mercy's sake what's the matter?
Nothing's the matter, except that I'm going to be married in a month.
Oh Newland, how wonderful!  I'm so glad!  But, dearest, why do you keep on laughing?  Do hush, or you'll wake Mamma.
Got the ring all right?
How like a first night at the Opera! Poor Janey! even by screwing her head around she can see only the people in the few front pews; and they're mostly dowdy Newlands and Dagonets. And all the while, I suppose, real people were living somewhere, and real things happening to them ...
THERE THEY COME!
Newland--I say: SHE'S HERE!
My God, HAVE I got the ring?
Dearly beloved, we are gathered together here,
Your arm--I SAY, GIVE HER YOUR ARM!
Darling!
Yes, of course I thought I'd lost the ring; no wedding would be complete if the poor devil of a bridegroom didn't go through that.  But you DID keep me waiting, you know!  I had time to think of every horror that might possibly happen.
But none ever CAN happen now, can it, Newland, as long as we two are together?
I was surprised, though--weren't you?--that aunt Medora came after all.  Ellen wrote that they were neither of them well enough to take the journey; I do wish it had been she who had recovered!  Did you see the exquisite old lace she sent me?
Yes--I--no: yes, it was beautiful,
Aren't you tired?  It will be good to have some tea when we arrive--I'm sure the aunts have got everything beautifully ready,
Ah, how awfully kind of the van der Luydens--they've sent their man over from Skuytercliff to meet us,
I'm extremely sorry, sir, that a little accident has occurred at the Miss du Lacs': a leak in the water-tank.  It happened yesterday, and Mr. van der Luyden, who heard of it this morning, sent a housemaid up by the early train to get the Patroon's house ready.  It will be quite comfortable, I think you'll find, sir; and the Miss du Lacs have sent their cook over, so that it will be exactly the same as if you'd been at Rhinebeck.
It'll be exactly the same, sir, I do assure you--
The same as Rhinebeck?  The Patroon's house?  But it will be a hundred thousand times better--won't it, Newland?  It's too dear and kind of Mr. van der Luyden to have thought of it.
Only fancy, I've never been inside it--have you?  The van der Luydens show it to so few people.  But they opened it for Ellen, it seems, and she told me what a darling little place it was: she says it's the only house she's seen in America that she could imagine being perfectly happy in.
Well--that's what we're going to be, isn't it?
Ah, it's just our luck beginning--the wonderful luck we're always going to have together!
Of course we must dine with Mrs. Carfry, dearest,
You must take May to see Mrs. Carfry.
It's all very well for you, Newland; you KNOW them.  But I shall feel so shy among a lot of people I've never met.  And what shall I wear?
Wear, dearest?  I thought a trunkful of things had come from Paris last week.
Yes, of course.  I meant to say that I shan't know WHICH to wear.
I've never dined out in London; and I don't want to be ridiculous.
But don't Englishwomen dress just like everybody else in the evening?
Newland!  How can you ask such funny questions?  When they go to the theatre in old ball-dresses and bare heads.
Well, perhaps they wear new ball-dresses at home; but at any rate Mrs. Carfry and Miss Harle won't.  They'll wear caps like my mother's--and shawls; very soft shawls.
Yes; but how will the other women be dressed?
Not as well as you, dear,
That's dear of you, Newland; but it doesn't help me much.
Why not wear your wedding-dress?  That can't be wrong, can it?
Oh, dearest!  If I only had it here!  But it's gone to Paris to be made over for next winter, and Worth hasn't sent it back.
Oh, well-- Look here--the fog's lifting. If we made a dash for the National Gallery we might manage to catch a glimpse of the pictures.
There's Italy
It would be lovely to go there next winter, if only you didn't have to be in New York.
Look me up, won't you?
Probably there'll be nobody at Mrs. Carfry's--London's a desert at this season, and you've made yourself much too beautiful,
I don't want them to think that we dress like savages,
It's their armour, their defence against the unknown, and their defiance of it.
You see, Monsieur, it's worth everything, isn't it, to keep one's intellectual liberty, not to enslave one's powers of appreciation, one's critical independence?  It was because of that that I abandoned journalism, and took to so much duller work: tutoring and private secretaryship.  There is a good deal of drudgery, of course; but one preserves one's moral freedom, what we call in French one's quant a soi.  And when one hears good talk one can join in it without compromising any opinions but one's own; or one can listen, and answer it inwardly.  Ah, good conversation--there's nothing like it, is there? The air of ideas is the only air worth breathing.  And so I have never regretted giving up either diplomacy or journalism--two different forms of the same self-abdication.
Voyez-vous, Monsieur, to be able to look life in the face: that's worth living in a garret for, isn't it?  But, after all, one must earn enough to pay for the garret; and I confess that to grow old as a private tutor--or a 'private' anything--is almost as chilling to the imagination as a second secretaryship at Bucharest. Sometimes I feel I must make a plunge: an immense plunge.  Do you suppose, for instance, there would be any opening for me in America--in New York?
New York--New York--but must it be especially New York?
I--I thought it your metropolis: is not the intellectual life more active there?
One throws out random suggestions--more to one's self than to others.  In reality, I see no immediate prospect--
But Mrs. Carfry will think that I ought to be taking you upstairs.
That young tutor is an interesting fellow: we had some awfully good talk after dinner about books and things,
The little Frenchman?  Wasn't he dreadfully common?
Common--common WHERE?
Why, I should say anywhere but in his school-room.  Those people are always awkward in society.  But then,
I suppose I shouldn't have known if he was clever.
Ah--then I won't ask him to dine!
Goodness--ask the Carfrys' tutor?
Well, not on the same day with the Carfrys, if you prefer I shouldn't. But I did rather want another talk with him.  He's looking for a job in New York.
A job in New York?  What sort of a job?  People don't have French tutors: what does he want to do?
Chiefly to enjoy good conversation, I understand,
Oh, Newland, how funny!  Isn't that FRENCH?
After that I suppose we shall have pretty nearly finished rubbing off each other's angles,
My dear Newland, I had no idea that you and May had arrived!  You yourself came only yesterday, you say?  Ah, business--business--professional duties ... I understand.  Many husbands, I know, find it impossible to join their wives here except for the week-end.
But marriage is one long sacrifice, as I used often to remind my Ellen--
No, I am not staying here, but with the Blenkers, in their delicious solitude at Portsmouth.  Beaufort was kind enough to send his famous trotters for me this morning, so that I might have at least a glimpse of one of Regina's garden-parties; but this evening I go back to rural life.  The Blenkers, dear original beings, have hired a primitive old farm-house at Portsmouth where they gather about them representative people ...
This week Dr. Agathon Carver is holding a series of Inner Thought meetings there.  A contrast indeed to this gay scene of worldly pleasure--but then I have always lived on contrasts! To me the only death is monotony.  I always say to Ellen: Beware of monotony; it's the mother of all the deadly sins.  But my poor child is going through a phase of exaltation, of abhorrence of the world.  You know, I suppose, that she has declined all invitations to stay at Newport, even with her grandmother Mingott?  I could hardly persuade her to come with me to the Blenkers', if you will believe it!  The life she leads is morbid, unnatural.  Ah, if she had only listened to me when it was still possible ... When the door was still open ... But shall we go down and watch this absorbing match?  I hear your May is one of the competitors.
Hullo, Medora!  Did the trotters do their business?  Forty minutes, eh?  ...  Well, that's not so bad, considering your nerves had to be spared.
Que voulez-vous?
You know May's going to carry off the first prize.
Ah, then it remains in the family,
Gad, not one of the lot holds the bow as she does
Yes; but that's the only kind of target she'll ever hit.
Shall we go to see Granny? I should like to tell her myself that I've won the prize.  There's lots of time before dinner.
Quite an heirloom, in fact, my dear, You must leave it in fee to your eldest girl. Well, well, what have I said to make you shake out the red flag?  Ain't there going to be any daughters--only boys, eh?  Good gracious, look at her blushing again all over her blushes!  What--can't I say that either?  Mercy me--when my children beg me to have all those gods and goddesses painted out overhead I always say I'm too thankful to have somebody about me that NOTHING can shock!
Well, now tell me all about the party, please, my dears, for I shall never get a straight word about it out of that silly Medora,
Cousin Medora?  But I thought she was going back to Portsmouth?
So she is--but she's got to come here first to pick up Ellen.  Ah--you didn't know Ellen had come to spend the day with me?  Such fol-de-rol, her not coming for the summer; but I gave up arguing with young people about fifty years ago.  Ellen--ELLEN!
Run down and fetch her, like a good grandson; this pretty lady will describe the party to me,
What am I?  A son-in-law--
She doesn't know--she hasn't guessed.  Shouldn't I know if she came up behind me, I wonder?
If she doesn't turn before that sail crosses the Lime Rock light I'll go back.
I'm sorry you didn't find Ellen--I should have liked to see her again, But perhaps she wouldn't have cared--she seems so changed.
Changed?
So indifferent to her friends, I mean; giving up New York and her house, and spending her time with such queer people.  Fancy how hideously uncomfortable she must be at the Blenkers'!  She says she does it to keep cousin Medora out of mischief: to prevent her marrying dreadful people.  But I sometimes think we've always bored her.
After all, I wonder if she wouldn't be happier with her husband.
Sancta simplicitas!
I don't think I ever heard you say a cruel thing before.
Cruel?
Well--watching the contortions of the damned is supposed to be a favourite sport of the angels; but I believe even they don't think people happier in hell.
It's a pity she ever married abroad then,
A party for the Blenkers--the Blenkers?
Good gracious--
'Some of us,' my dear--more than one? Three o'clock is such a very awkward hour.  I have to be here at half-past three to take my drops: it's really no use trying to follow Bencomb's new treatment if I don't do it systematically; and if I join you later, of course I shall miss my drive.
Of course I'll drive with Papa--I'm sure Newland will find something to do,
Oh, I think for a change I'll just save it instead of spending it--
No; but you see it doesn't matter, because when there's nothing particular to do he reads a book.
I shall be back by six, you know, dear: Papa never drives later than that--
Oh, Mr. Archer!
Gracious--where did you drop from?  I must have been sound asleep in the hammock.  Everybody else has gone to Newport.  Did you ring?
I--no--that is, I was just going to.  I had to come up the island to see about a horse, and I drove over on a chance of finding Mrs. Blenker and your visitors.  But the house seemed empty--so I sat down to wait.
The house IS empty.  Mother's not here, or the Marchioness--or anybody but me.
Didn't you know that Professor and Mrs. Sillerton are giving a garden-party for mother and all of us this afternoon?  It was too unlucky that I couldn't go; but I've had a sore throat, and mother was afraid of the drive home this evening.  Did you ever know anything so disappointing?  Of course, I shouldn't have minded half as much if I'd known you were coming.
But Madame Olenska--has she gone to Newport too?
Madame Olenska--didn't you know she'd been called away?
Called away?--
Oh, my best parasol!  I lent it to that goose of a Katie, because it matched her ribbons, and the careless thing must have dropped it here. We Blenkers are all like that ... real Bohemians!
Yes, Ellen was called away yesterday: she lets us call her Ellen, you know.  A telegram came from Boston: she said she might be gone for two days.  I do LOVE the way she does her hair, don't you?
You don't happen to know why Madame Olenska went to Boston?  I hope it was not on account of bad news?
Oh, I don't believe so.  She didn't tell us what was in the telegram.  I think she didn't want the Marchioness to know.  She's so romantic-looking, isn't she?  Doesn't she remind you of Mrs. Scott-Siddons when she reads 'Lady Geraldine's Courtship'?  Did you never hear her?
You don't know, I suppose--I shall be in Boston tomorrow.  If I could manage to see her--
Oh, of course; how lovely of you!  She's staying at the Parker House; it must be horrible there in this weather.
Out?--
Oh
Oh
I'm here on business--just got here, But what on earth are you doing in this wilderness?
I?  Oh, I'm here on business too,
You do your hair differently,
Differently?  No--it's only that I do it as best I can when I'm without Nastasia.
Nastasia; but isn't she with you?
No; I'm alone.  For two days it was not worth while to bring her.
You're alone--at the Parker House?
Does it strike you as dangerous?
No; not dangerous--
But unconventional?  I see; I suppose it is.
I hadn't thought of it, because I've just done something so much more unconventional.
I've just refused to take back a sum of money--that belonged to me.
Some one--has come here to meet you?
Yes.
With this offer?
And you refused--because of the conditions?
I refused,
What were the conditions?
Oh, they were not onerous: just to sit at the head of his table now and then.
He wants you back--at any price?
Well--a considerable price.  At least the sum is considerable for me.
It was to meet him here that you came?
Meet him--my husband?  HERE? At this season he's always at Cowes or Baden.
He sent some one?
Yes.
With a letter?
No; just a message.  He never writes.  I don't think I've had more than one letter from him.
Why does he never write?
Why should he?  What does one have secretaries for?
And the person?
The emissary?  The emissary, might, for all I care, have left already; but he has insisted on waiting till this evening ... in case ... on the chance ...
And you came out here to think the chance over?
I came out to get a breath of air.  The hotel's too stifling.  I'm taking the afternoon train back to Portsmouth.
You're not changed.
This is horrible.  Why shouldn't we go out a little on the bay? There's a breeze, and it will be cooler.  We might take the steamboat down to Point Arley.
On a Monday morning there won't be anybody on the boat.  My train doesn't leave till evening: I'm going back to New York.  Why shouldn't we?
Haven't we done all we could?
Oh
You mustn't say things like that to me,
I'll say anything you like; or nothing.  I won't open my mouth unless you tell me to.  What harm can it do to anybody?  All I want is to listen to you,
Oh, don't calculate, give me the day!  I want to get you away from that man.  At what time was he coming?
At eleven.
Then you must come at once.
You needn't be afraid--if I don't come.
Nor you either--if you do.  I swear I only want to hear about you, to know what you've been doing.  It's a hundred years since we've met--it may be another hundred before we meet again.
Why didn't you come down to the beach to fetch me, the day I was at Granny's?
Because you didn't look round--because you didn't know I was there.  I swore I wouldn't unless you looked round.
But I didn't look round on purpose.
On purpose?
I knew you were there; when you drove in I recognised the ponies.  So I went down to the beach.
To get away from me as far as you could?
To get away from you as far as I could.
Well, you see it's no use.  I may as well tell you, that the business I came here for was just to find you.  But, look here, we must start or we shall miss our boat.
Our boat?
Oh, but I must go back to the hotel first:  I must leave a note--
As many notes as you please.  You can write here.
I've even got an envelope--you see how everything's predestined!  There--steady the thing on your knee, and I'll get the pen going in a second.  They have to be humoured; wait--
It's like jerking down the mercury in a thermometer: just a trick.  Now try--
I told you everything was predestined!  Here's a cab for us.  You see!
Shall I take it in?
If she doesn't come soon I'll go in and find her,
This is hopeless--I'll ask for a private room,
But Dr. Carver--aren't you afraid of Dr. Carver?  I hear he's been staying with you at the Blenkers'.
Oh, the Carver danger is over.  Dr. Carver is a very clever man.  He wants a rich wife to finance his plans, and Medora is simply a good advertisement as a convert.
A convert to what?
To all sorts of new and crazy social schemes.  But, do you know, they interest me more than the blind conformity to tradition--somebody else's tradition--that I see among our own friends.  It seems stupid to have discovered America only to make it into a copy of another country.
Do you suppose Christopher Columbus would have taken all that trouble just to go to the Opera with the Selfridge Merrys?
And Beaufort--do you say these things to Beaufort?
I haven't seen him for a long time.  But I used to; and he understands.
Ah, it's what I've always told you; you don't like us. And you like Beaufort because he's so unlike us.
We're damnably dull.  We've no character, no colour, no variety.--I wonder, why you don't go back?
I believe it's because of you.
At least, it was you who made me understand that under the dullness there are things so fine and sensitive and delicate that even those I most cared for in my other life look cheap in comparison.  I don't know how to explain myself but it seems as if I'd never before understood with how much that is hard and shabby and base the most exquisite pleasures may be paid.
I want, to be perfectly honest with you--and with myself.  For a long time I've hoped this chance would come: that I might tell you how you've helped me, what you've made of me--
And what do you make out that you've made of me?
Of you?
Yes: for I'm of your making much more than you ever were of mine.  I'm the man who married one woman because another one told him to.
I thought--you promised--you were not to say such things today.
Ah--how like a woman!  None of you will ever see a bad business through!
IS it a bad business--for May?
For that's the thing we've always got to think of--haven't we--by your own showing?
My own showing?
Or if not, if it's not worth while to have given up, to have missed things, so that others may be saved from disillusionment and misery--then everything I came home for, everything that made my other life seem by contrast so bare and so poor because no one there took account of them--all these things are a sham or a dream--
And in that case there's no reason on earth why you shouldn't go back?
Oh, IS there no reason?
Not if you staked your all on the success of my marriage.  My marriage, isn't going to be a sight to keep you here.
What's the use?  You gave me my first glimpse of a real life, and at the same moment you asked me to go on with a sham one.  It's beyond human enduring--that's all.
Oh, don't say that; when I'm enduring it!
You too--oh, all this time, you too?
What's the use--when you will go back?
Oh--I shan't go yet!
Not yet?  Some time, then?  Some time that you already foresee?
I promise you: not as long as you hold out.  Not as long as we can look straight at each other like this.
What a life for you!--
Oh--as long as it's a part of yours.
And mine a part of yours?
And that's to be all--for either of us?
Well; it IS all, isn't it?
Don't--don't be unhappy,
You won't go back--you won't go back?
I won't go back,
Surely, Monsieur, we met in London?
Ah, to be sure: in London!
So you DID get here, after all?
Oh, I got here--yes,
But not for long; I return the day after tomorrow.
I wonder, Monsieur, since I've had the good luck to run across you, if I might--
I was just going to suggest it: come to luncheon, won't you?  Down town, I mean: if you'll look me up in my office I'll take you to a very decent restaurant in that quarter.
You're too kind.  But I was only going to ask if you would tell me how to reach some sort of conveyance.  There are no porters, and no one here seems to listen--
I know: our American stations must surprise you.  When you ask for a porter they give you chewing-gum.  But if you'll come along I'll extricate you; and you must really lunch with me, you know.
I believe I saw you, sir, yesterday in Boston.
It is extraordinary, very extraordinary, that we should have met in the circumstances in which I find myself.
What circumstances?
I have come, not to look for employment, as I spoke of doing when we last met, but on a special mission--
Ah--!
A special mission,
Do sit down
It was about this mission that you wanted to consult me?
Not in my own behalf: on that score I--I have fully dealt with myself.  I should like--if I may--to speak to you about the Countess Olenska.
And on whose behalf, do you wish to do this?
Well--I might say HERS, if it did not sound like a liberty.  Shall I say instead: on behalf of abstract justice?
In other words: you are Count Olenski's messenger?
Not to YOU, Monsieur.  If I come to you, it is on quite other grounds.
What right have you, in the circumstances, to BE on any other ground? If you're an emissary you're an emissary.
My mission is over: as far as the Countess Olenska goes, it has failed.
I can't help that,
No: but you can help-- You can help, Monsieur, I am convinced, to make it equally a failure with her family.
Well--and by God I will!
Why the devil, should you have thought--since I suppose you're appealing to me on the ground of my relationship to Madame Olenska--that I should take a view contrary to the rest of her family?
Oh, Monsieur--
I can't imagine, why you should have come to me when there are others so much nearer to the Countess; still less why you thought I should be more accessible to the arguments I suppose you were sent over with.
The arguments I want to present to you, Monsieur, are my own and not those I was sent over with.
Then I see still less reason for listening to them.
Monsieur--will you tell me one thing?  Is it my right to be here that you question?  Or do you perhaps believe the whole matter to be already closed?
I beg your pardon: but why isn't the matter closed?
You do, then, agree with the rest of the family that, in face of the new proposals I have brought, it is hardly possible for Madame Olenska not to return to her husband?
Good God!
Before seeing her, I saw--at Count Olenski's request--Mr. Lovell Mingott, with whom I had several talks before going to Boston.  I understand that he represents his mother's view; and that Mrs. Manson Mingott's influence is great throughout her family.
Don't you know, Monsieur--is it possible you don't know--that the family begin to doubt if they have the right to advise the Countess to refuse her husband's last proposals?
The proposals you brought?
The proposals I brought.
What is your object in speaking to me of this?
To beg you, Monsieur--to beg you with all the force I'm capable of--not to let her go back.--Oh, don't let her!
May I ask, if this is the line you took with the Countess Olenska?
No, Monsieur: I accepted my mission in good faith.  I really believed--for reasons I need not trouble you with--that it would be better for Madame Olenska to recover her situation, her fortune, the social consideration that her husband's standing gives her.
So I supposed: you could hardly have accepted such a mission otherwise.
I should not have accepted it.
Well, then--?
Ah, Monsieur, after I had seen her, after I had listened to her, I knew she was better off here.
You knew--?
Monsieur, I discharged my mission faithfully: I put the Count's arguments, I stated his offers, without adding any comment of my own. The Countess was good enough to listen patiently; she carried her goodness so far as to see me twice; she considered impartially all I had come to say.  And it was in the course of these two talks that I changed my mind, that I came to see things differently.
May I ask what led to this change?
Simply seeing the change in HER,
The change in her?  Then you knew her before?
I used to see her in her husband's house.  I have known Count Olenski for many years.  You can imagine that he would not have sent a stranger on such a mission.
The change--what sort of a change?
Ah, Monsieur, if I could tell you! Tenez--the discovery, I suppose, of what I'd never thought of before: that she's an American.  And that if you're an American of HER kind--of your kind--things that are accepted in certain other societies, or at least put up with as part of a general convenient give-and-take--become unthinkable, simply unthinkable.  If Madame Olenska's relations understood what these things were, their opposition to her returning would no doubt be as unconditional as her own; but they seem to regard her husband's wish to have her back as proof of an irresistible longing for domestic life.
Whereas it's far from being as simple as that.
Thank you,
There's nothing to thank me for, Monsieur: it is I, rather--
I should like, though, to add one thing.  You asked me if I was in Count Olenski's employ.  I am at this moment: I returned to him, a few months ago, for reasons of private necessity such as may happen to any one who has persons, ill and older persons, dependent on him.  But from the moment that I have taken the step of coming here to say these things to you I consider myself discharged, and I shall tell him so on my return, and give him the reasons.  That's all, Monsieur.
Thank you,
There's no doubt that Dr. Ashmore is right: there IS a marked trend,
It was odd, though, to preach about it on Thanksgiving,
Oh, he means us to give thanks for what's left.
The extravagance in dress-- Sillerton took me to the first night of the Opera, and I can only tell you that Jane Merry's dress was the only one I recognised from last year; and even that had had the front panel changed.  Yet I know she got it out from Worth only two years ago, because my seamstress always goes in to make over her Paris dresses before she wears them.
Ah, Jane Merry is one of US,
Yes; she's one of the few.  In my youth, it was considered vulgar to dress in the newest fashions; and Amy Sillerton has always told me that in Boston the rule was to put away one's Paris dresses for two years.  Old Mrs. Baxter Pennilow, who did everything handsomely, used to import twelve a year, two velvet, two satin, two silk, and the other six of poplin and the finest cashmere. It was a standing order, and as she was ill for two years before she died they found forty-eight Worth dresses that had never been taken out of tissue paper; and when the girls left off their mourning they were able to wear the first lot at the Symphony concerts without looking in advance of the fashion.
Ah, well, Boston is more conservative than New York; but I always think it's a safe rule for a lady to lay aside her French dresses for one season,
It was Beaufort who started the new fashion by making his wife clap her new clothes on her back as soon as they arrived: I must say at times it takes all Regina's distinction not to look like ... like ...
Like her rivals,
Poor Regina!  Her Thanksgiving hasn't been a very cheerful one, I'm afraid.  Have you heard the rumours about Beaufort's speculations, Sillerton?
Of course, Newland, I know you let dear May go to Mrs. Struthers's Sunday evenings--
Oh, you know, everybody goes to Mrs. Struthers's now; and she was invited to Granny's last reception.
I know, dear, I know, Such things have to be, I suppose, as long as AMUSEMENT is what people go out for; but I've never quite forgiven your cousin Madame Olenska for being the first person to countenance Mrs. Struthers.
Oh, ELLEN--
I've always thought that people like the Countess Olenska, who have lived in aristocratic societies, ought to help us to keep up our social distinctions, instead of ignoring them.
I've no doubt we all seem alike to foreigners,
I don't think Ellen cares for society; but nobody knows exactly what she does care for,
Ah, well--
Madame Olenska is a great favourite with the gentlemen,
Ah, that's the danger that a young woman like Madame Olenska is always exposed to,
If the Beaufort smash comes, there are going to be disclosures.
There's bound to be, the nastiest kind of a cleaning up.  He hasn't spent all his money on Regina.
Oh, well--that's discounted, isn't it?  My belief is he'll pull out yet,
Perhaps--perhaps.  I know he was to see some of the influential people today.  Of course, it's to be hoped they can tide him over--this time anyhow.  I shouldn't like to think of poor Regina's spending the rest of her life in some shabby foreign watering-place for bankrupts.
I don't know, of course, how far your wife's family are aware of what people say about--well, about Madame Olenska's refusal to accept her husband's latest offer.
It's a pity--it's certainly a pity--that she refused it.
A pity?  In God's name, why?
Well--to put it on the lowest ground--what's she going to live on now?
Now--?
If Beaufort--
What the devil do you mean, sir?
Well--I have it on pretty good authority--in fact, on old Catherine's herself--that the family reduced Countess Olenska's allowance considerably when she definitely refused to go back to her husband; and as, by this refusal, she also forfeits the money settled on her when she married--which Olenski was ready to make over to her if she returned--why, what the devil do YOU mean, my dear boy, by asking me what I mean?
I don't know anything of Madame Olenska's private affairs; but I don't need to, to be certain that what you insinuate--
Oh, I don't: it's Lefferts, for one,
Lefferts--who made love to her and got snubbed for it!
Ah--DID he?
Well, well: it's a pity she didn't go back before Beaufort's cropper, If she goes NOW, and if he fails, it will only confirm the general impression: which isn't by any means peculiar to Lefferts, by the way.
Oh, she won't go back now: less than ever!
That's your opinion, eh?  Well, no doubt you know.  But everybody will tell you that the few pennies Medora Manson has left are all in Beaufort's hands; and how the two women are to keep their heads above water unless he does, I can't imagine.  Of course, Madame Olenska may still soften old Catherine, who's been the most inexorably opposed to her staying; and old Catherine could make her any allowance she chooses.  But we all know that she hates parting with good money; and the rest of the family have no particular interest in keeping Madame Olenska here.
Shall we go up and join my mother?
May!
This lamp is smoking again; I should think the servants might see that it's kept properly trimmed,
I'm so sorry: it shan't happen again,
How young she is!  For what endless years this life will have to go on!
Look here, I may have to go to Washington for a few days--soon; next week perhaps.
On business?
On business, naturally.  There's a patent case coming up before the Supreme Court--
Yes, I see.
The change will do you good,
and you must be sure to go and see Ellen,
They smell less if one blows them out,
I've seen bad things in my time; but nothing as bad as this.  Everybody we know will be hit, one way or another.  And what will be done about Mrs. Beaufort?  What CAN be done about her?  I pity Mrs. Manson Mingott as much as anybody: coming at her age, there's no knowing what effect this affair may have on her.  She always believed in Beaufort--she made a friend of him!  And there's the whole Dallas connection: poor Mrs. Beaufort is related to every one of you.  Her only chance would be to leave her husband--yet how can any one tell her so?  Her duty is at his side; and luckily she seems always to have been blind to his private weaknesses.
What is it?  I can't be disturbed.
Mrs. Julius Beaufort
I said to her: And when she said: I said:
If only I could keep it from your father-in-law: he always says: 'Augusta, for pity's sake, don't destroy my last illusions'--and how am I to prevent his knowing these horrors?
After all, Mamma, he won't have SEEN them,
Ah, no; thank heaven he's safe in bed.  And Dr. Bencomb has promised to keep him there till poor Mamma is better, and Regina has been got away somewhere.
There was the case of poor Grandmamma Spicer; your great-grandmother, May.  Of course, your great-grandfather's money difficulties were private--losses at cards, or signing a note for somebody--I never quite knew, because Mamma would never speak of it.  But she was brought up in the country because her mother had to leave New York after the disgrace, whatever it was: they lived up the Hudson alone, winter and summer, till Mamma was sixteen.  It would never have occurred to Grandmamma Spicer to ask the family to 'countenance' her, as I understand Regina calls it; though a private disgrace is nothing compared to the scandal of ruining hundreds of innocent people.
Yes, it would be more becoming in Regina to hide her own countenance than to talk about other people's, I understand that the emerald necklace she wore at the Opera last Friday had been sent on approval from Ball and Black's in the afternoon.  I wonder if they'll ever get it back?
She wants me to telegraph for Ellen Olenska.  I had written to Ellen, of course, and to Medora; but now it seems that's not enough.  I'm to telegraph to her immediately, and to tell her that she's to come alone.
I suppose it must be done,
Of course it must be done, Granny knows what she wants, and we must carry out all her wishes.  Shall I write the telegram for you, Auntie?  If it goes at once Ellen can probably catch tomorrow morning's train.
Well, it can't go at once.  Jasper and the pantry-boy are both out with notes and telegrams.
But here's Newland, ready to do anything.  Will you take the telegram, Newland?  There'll be just time before luncheon.
What a pity, that you and Ellen will cross each other on the way!--Newland,
is obliged to go to Washington about a patent law-suit that is coming up before the Supreme Court.  I suppose Uncle Lovell will be back by tomorrow night, and with Granny improving so much it doesn't seem right to ask Newland to give up an important engagement for the firm--does it?
Oh, of course not, darling.  Your Granny would be the last person to wish it.
But why on earth she should make you telegraph for Ellen Olenska--
Perhaps it's to urge on her again that after all her duty is with her husband.
Olenska--O-len-ska,
It's an unlikely name for a New York telegraph office; at least in this quarter,
Hallo, Newland: thought I'd catch you here.  I've just heard of old Mrs. Mingott's stroke; and as I was on my way to the house I saw you turning down this street and nipped after you.  I suppose you've come from there?
Very bad, eh? Wiring to the family, I suppose. I gather it IS bad, if you're including Countess Olenska.
Why?
Mrs. Mingott is much better: the doctor feels no anxiety whatever
The best thing the Beauforts can do, is to go and live at Regina's little place in North Carolina.  Beaufort has always kept a racing stable, and he had better breed trotting horses.  I should say he had all the qualities of a successful horsedealer.
If people of my age WILL eat chicken-salad in the evening what are they to expect?
It's always one thing after another, the only thing that makes me think Mamma must be less well than Dr. Bencomb will admit is this morbid desire to have Ellen come at once, however inconvenient it is to meet her.
Augusta, have you any other reason for thinking that Bencomb is less to be relied on than he was?  Have you noticed that he has been less conscientious than usual in following up my case or your mother's?
My dear, how could you imagine such a thing?  I only meant that, after the decided stand Mamma took about its being Ellen's duty to go back to her husband, it seems strange that she should be seized with this sudden whim to see her, when there are half a dozen other grandchildren that she might have asked for.  But we must never forget that Mamma, in spite of her wonderful vitality, is a very old woman.
Yes: your mother's a very old woman; and for all we know Bencomb may not be as successful with very old people.  As you say, my dear, it's always one thing after another; and in another ten or fifteen years I suppose I shall have the pleasing duty of looking about for a new doctor.  It's always better to make such a change before it's absolutely necessary.
But all the while, I don't see how Ellen's to be got here tomorrow evening; and I do like to have things settled for at least twenty-four hours ahead.
Shall I fetch her? I can easily get away from the office in time to meet the brougham at the ferry, if May will send it there.
So you see, Mamma, everything WILL be settled twenty-four hours in advance,
I didn't want to worry Mamma by raising fresh obstacles; but how can you meet Ellen tomorrow, and bring her back to New York, when you're going to Washington?
Oh, I'm not going,
Not going?  Why, what's happened?
The case is off--postponed.
Postponed?  How odd!  I saw a note this morning from Mr. Letterblair to Mamma saying that he was going to Washington tomorrow for the big patent case that he was to argue before the Supreme Court.  You said it was a patent case, didn't you?
Well--that's it: the whole office can't go.  Letterblair decided to go this morning.
Then it's NOT postponed?
No: but my going is,
I'm not going till later on: luckily for the convenience of your family,
Yes; it IS awfully convenient, that you should be able to meet Ellen after all; you saw how much Mamma appreciated your offering to do it.
Oh, I'm delighted to do it.
Good-bye, dearest,
It's all of two hours from Jersey City to old Catherine's.  It's all of two hours--and it may be more.
I don't care which of their visions comes true, as long as the tunnel isn't built yet.
This way--I have the carriage,
If only it doesn't mean--poor Granny!
Oh, no, no--she's much better--she's all right, really.  There--we've passed it!
You didn't expect me today?
Oh, no.
I meant to go to Washington to see you.  I'd made all my arrangements--I very nearly crossed you in the train.
Oh--
Do you know--I hardly remembered you?
Hardly remembered me?
I mean: how shall I explain?  I--it's always so.  EACH TIME YOU HAPPEN TO ME ALL OVER AGAIN.
Oh, yes: I know!  I know!
Does it--do I too: to you?
Ellen--Ellen--Ellen!
What a pretty carriage!  Is it May's?
Yes.
It was May who sent you to fetch me, then?  How kind of her!
Your husband's secretary came to see me the day after we met in Boston.
He writes to her, then.
M. Riviere went to see you?
Yes: didn't you know?
No,
And you're not surprised?
Why should I be?  He told me in Boston that he knew you; that he'd met you in England I think.
Ellen--I must ask you one thing.
Yes.
I wanted to ask it after I saw him, but I couldn't put it in a letter. It was Riviere who helped you to get away--when you left your husband?
Yes: I owe him a great debt,
I think you're the most honest woman I ever met!
Oh, no--but probably one of the least fussy,
Call it what you like: you look at things as they are.
Ah--I've had to.  I've had to look at the Gorgon.
Well--it hasn't blinded you!  You've seen that she's just an old bogey like all the others.
She doesn't blind one; but she dries up one's tears.
If you're not blind, then, you must see that this can't last.
What can't?
Our being together--and not together.
Don't be afraid of me: you needn't squeeze yourself back into your corner like that.  A stolen kiss isn't what I want.  Look: I'm not even trying to touch the sleeve of your jacket.  Don't suppose that I don't understand your reasons for not wanting to let this feeling between us dwindle into an ordinary hole-and-corner love-affair.  I couldn't have spoken like this yesterday, because when we've been apart, and I'm looking forward to seeing you, every thought is burnt up in a great flame.  But then you come; and you're so much more than I remembered, and what I want of you is so much more than an hour or two every now and then, with wastes of thirsty waiting between, that I can sit perfectly still beside you, like this, with that other vision in my mind, just quietly trusting to it to come true.
What do you mean by trusting to it to come true?
Why--you know it will, don't you?
Your vision of you and me together?
You choose your place well to put it to me!
Do you mean because we're in my wife's brougham?  Shall we get out and walk, then?  I don't suppose you mind a little snow?
No; I shan't get out and walk, because my business is to get to Granny's as quickly as I can.  And you'll sit beside me, and we'll look, not at visions, but at realities.
I don't know what you mean by realities.  The only reality to me is this.
Is it your idea, then, that I should live with you as your mistress--since I can't be your wife?
I want--I want somehow to get away with you into a world where words like that--categories like that--won't exist.  Where we shall be simply two human beings who love each other, who are the whole of life to each other; and nothing else on earth will matter.
Oh, my dear--where is that country?  Have you ever been there?
I know so many who've tried to find it; and, believe me, they all got out by mistake at wayside stations: at places like Boulogne, or Pisa, or Monte Carlo--and it wasn't at all different from the old world they'd left, but only rather smaller and dingier and more promiscuous.
Yes, the Gorgon HAS dried your tears,
Well, she opened my eyes too; it's a delusion to say that she blinds people.  What she does is just the contrary--she fastens their eyelids open, so that they're never again in the blessed darkness.  Isn't there a Chinese torture like that?  There ought to be.  Ah, believe me, it's a miserable little country!
Then what, exactly, is your plan for us?
For US?  But there's no US in that sense!  We're near each other only if we stay far from each other.  Then we can be ourselves.  Otherwise we're only Newland Archer, the husband of Ellen Olenska's cousin, and Ellen Olenska, the cousin of Newland Archer's wife, trying to be happy behind the backs of the people who trust them.
Ah, I'm beyond that,
No, you're not!  You've never been beyond.  And I have, and I know what it looks like there.
Why are we stopping?  This is not Granny's,
No: I shall get out here,
You're right: I ought not to have come today,
What became of you, dear? I was waiting at Granny's, and Ellen came alone, and said she had dropped you on the way because you had to rush off on business.  There's nothing wrong?
Only some letters I'd forgotten, and wanted to get off before dinner.
Ah-- I'm sorry you didn't come to Granny's--unless the letters were urgent.
They were, Besides, I don't see why I should have gone to your grandmother's.  I didn't know you were there.
Yes!
What news?
It seems they're going to stay in New York.  I believe he's going into an insurance business, or something.  They're looking about for a small house.
What's the matter?
The room is stifling: I want a little air.
Newland!  Do shut the window.  You'll catch your death.
Catch my death!
Newland!  Are you ill?
Poor May!
Poor?  Why poor?
Because I shall never be able to open a window without worrying you,
I shall never worry if you're happy.
Ah, my dear; and I shall never be happy unless I can open the windows!
In THIS weather?
All right.  Shall we go together this afternoon?
Oh, you'd much better go alone.  It bores Granny to see the same people too often.
Don't let in any one else.  If my daughters call, say I'm asleep.
My dear, am I perfectly hideous? My daughters tell me it doesn't matter at my age--as if hideousness didn't matter all the more the harder it gets to conceal!
My dear, you're handsomer than ever!
Ah, but not as handsome as Ellen!
Was she so awfully handsome the day you drove her up from the ferry?
Was it because you told her so that she had to put you out on the way?  In my youth young men didn't desert pretty women unless they were made to!
It's a pity she didn't marry you; I always told her so.  It would have spared me all this worry.  But who ever thought of sparing their grandmother worry?
Well, it's settled, anyhow: she's going to stay with me, whatever the rest of the family say!  She hadn't been here five minutes before I'd have gone down on my knees to keep her--if only, for the last twenty years, I'd been able to see where the floor was!
They'd talked me over, as no doubt you know: persuaded me, Lovell, and Letterblair, and Augusta Welland, and all the rest of them, that I must hold out and cut off her allowance, till she was made to see that it was her duty to go back to Olenski.  They thought they'd convinced me when the secretary, or whatever he was, came out with the last proposals: handsome proposals I confess they were.  After all, marriage is marriage, and money's money--both useful things in their way ... and I didn't know what to answer--
But the minute I laid eyes on her, I said:
And now it's settled that she's to stay here and nurse her Granny as long as there's a Granny to nurse.  It's not a gay prospect, but she doesn't mind; and of course I've told Letterblair that she's to be given her proper allowance.
She couldn't have gone back--it was impossible!
Ah, my dear, I always knew you were on her side; and that's why I sent for you today, and why I said to your pretty wife, when she proposed to come with you: 'No, my dear, I'm pining to see Newland, and I don't want anybody to share our transports.'  For you see, my dear--
you see, we shall have a fight yet.  The family don't want her here, and they'll say it's because I've been ill, because I'm a weak old woman, that she's persuaded me.  I'm not well enough yet to fight them one by one, and you've got to do it for me.
I?
You.  Why not?
Why not?
Oh, I don't count--I'm too insignificant.
Well, you're Letterblair's partner, ain't you?  You've got to get at them through Letterblair.  Unless you've got a reason,
Oh, my dear, I back you to hold your own against them all without my help; but you shall have it if you need it,
Then we're safe!
I always knew you'd back us up, because they never quote you when they talk about its being her duty to go home.
And Madame Olenska?  When am I to see her?
Not today.  One at a time, please.  Madame Olenska's gone out.
She's gone out, my child: gone in my carriage to see Regina Beaufort.
That's what she's reduced me to already.  The day after she got here she put on her best bonnet, and told me, as cool as a cucumber, that she was going to call on Regina Beaufort.
says I.
she says.
I answered.
she says,
Well, that floored me, and I let her go; and finally one day she said it was raining too hard to go out on foot, and she wanted me to lend her my carriage.
I asked her; and she said:
--COUSIN!  Now, my dear, I looked out of the window, and saw it wasn't raining a drop; but I understood her, and I let her have the carriage....  After all, Regina's a brave woman, and so is she; and I've always liked courage above everything.
Eh--eh--eh!  Whose hand did you think you were kissing, young man--your wife's, I hope?
Give her her Granny's love; but you'd better not say anything about our talk.
Ellen,
I shall see you now--we shall be together,
Ah, Granny has told you?
Tomorrow I must see you--somewhere where we can be alone,
But I shall be at Granny's--for the present that is,
Somewhere where we can be alone,
In New York?  But there are no churches ... no monuments.
There's the Art Museum--in the Park, At half-past two.  I shall be at the door ...
She'll come!
It's odd, I never came here before.
Ah, well--.  Some day, I suppose, it will be a great Museum.
Yes,
It seems cruel, that after a while nothing matters ... any more than these little things, that used to be necessary and important to forgotten people, and now have to be guessed at under a magnifying glass and labelled:  'Use unknown.'
Yes; but meanwhile--
Ah, meanwhile--
Meanwhile everything matters--that concerns you,
What is it you wanted to tell me?
What I wanted to tell you? Why, that I believe you came to New York because you were afraid.
Afraid?
Of my coming to Washington.
Well--?
Well--yes,
You WERE afraid?  You knew--?
Yes: I knew ...
Well, then?
Well, then: this is better, isn't it?
Better--?
We shall hurt others less.  Isn't it, after all, what you always wanted?
To have you here, you mean--in reach and yet out of reach?  To meet you in this way, on the sly?  It's the very reverse of what I want.  I told you the other day what I wanted.
And you still think this--worse?
A thousand times! It would be easy to lie to you; but the truth is I think it detestable.
Oh, so do I!
Well, then--it's my turn to ask: what is it, in God's name, that you think better?
What do you think better?
I promised Granny to stay with her because it seemed to me that here I should be safer.
From me?
Safer from loving me?
Safer from doing irreparable harm.  Don't let us be like all the others!
What others?  I don't profess to be different from my kind.  I'm consumed by the same wants and the same longings.
Shall I--once come to you; and then go home?
Dearest!
Go home? What do you mean by going home?
Home to my husband.
And you expect me to say yes to that?
What else is there?  I can't stay here and lie to the people who've been good to me.
But that's the very reason why I ask you to come away!
And destroy their lives, when they've helped me to remake mine?
If I were to let her come, I should have to let her go again.
After all, we have lives of our own....  There's no use attempting the impossible.  You're so unprejudiced about some things, so used, as you say, to looking at the Gorgon, that I don't know why you're afraid to face our case, and see it as it really is--unless you think the sacrifice is not worth making.
Call it that, then--I must go,
Well, then: come to me once,
When? Tomorrow?
The day after.
Dearest--!
Oh, I shall be late--good-bye.  No, don't come any farther than this,
Is Mrs. Archer in?
This was what had to be, then ... this was what had to be,
I'm dreadfully late--you weren't worried, were you?
Is it late?
After seven.  I believe you've been asleep!
I went to see Granny, and just as I was going away Ellen came in from a walk; so I stayed and had a long talk with her.  It was ages since we'd had a real talk....
A really good talk, She was so dear--just like the old Ellen. I'm afraid I haven't been fair to her lately.  I've sometimes thought--
Yes, you've thought--?
Well, perhaps I haven't judged her fairly.  She's so different--at least on the surface.  She takes up such odd people--she seems to like to make herself conspicuous.  I suppose it's the life she's led in that fast European society; no doubt we seem dreadfully dull to her.  But I don't want to judge her unfairly.
She hates Ellen, and she's trying to overcome the feeling, and to get me to help her to overcome it.
You understand, don't you, why the family have sometimes been annoyed?  We all did what we could for her at first; but she never seemed to understand.  And now this idea of going to see Mrs. Beaufort, of going there in Granny's carriage!  I'm afraid she's quite alienated the van der Luydens ...
Ah,
It's time to dress; we're dining out, aren't we?
You haven't kissed me today,
At the court of the Tuileries, such things were pretty openly tolerated.
It will never do, my dear Louisa, to let people like Mrs. Lemuel Struthers think they can step into Regina's shoes.  It is just at such times that new people push in and get a footing.  It was owing to the epidemic of chicken-pox in New York the winter Mrs. Struthers first appeared that the married men slipped away to her house while their wives were in the nursery.  You and dear Henry, Louisa, must stand in the breach as you always have.
Is it possible, dear, that what I hear is true?  I was told your grandmother Mingott's carriage was seen standing at Mrs. Beaufort's door.
If it was, I'm convinced it was there without Mrs. Mingott's knowledge.
Ah, you think--?
I'm afraid, that Madame Olenska's kind heart may have led her into the imprudence of calling on Mrs. Beaufort.
Or her taste for peculiar people,
I'm sorry to think it of Madame Olenska,
Ah, my dear--and after you'd had her twice at Skuytercliff!
At the Tuileries, the standard was excessively lax in some respects; and if you'd asked where Morny's money came from--!  Or who paid the debts of some of the Court beauties ...
I hope, dear Sillerton, you are not suggesting that we should adopt such standards?
I never suggest, But Madame Olenska's foreign bringing-up may make her less particular--
Still, to have kept her grandmother's carriage at a defaulter's door!
Of course I've always said that she looks at things quite differently,
I'm sure Ellen meant it kindly.
Imprudent people are often kind,
If only she had consulted some one--
Ah, that she never did!
I couldn't have my happiness made out of a wrong--a wrong to some one else;
I've got a beastly headache; don't tell any one, but come home, won't you?
I'm so sorry you don't feel well.  I'm afraid they've been overworking you again at the office.
No--it's not that: do you mind if I open the window?
Did you hurt yourself?
No; but my poor dress--see how I've torn it! Oh, no,
But hadn't you better go to bed at once?
No; my head is not as bad as that. And there's something I want to say; something important--that I must tell you at once.
Yes, dear?
May--
There is something I've got to tell you ... about myself ...
Madame Olenska--
Oh, why should we talk about Ellen tonight?
Because I ought to have spoken before.
Is it really worth while, dear?  I know I've been unfair to her at times--perhaps we all have.  You've understood her, no doubt, better than we did: you've always been kind to her.  But what does it matter, now it's all over?
All over--what do you mean?
Why--since she's going back to Europe so soon; since Granny approves and understands, and has arranged to make her independent of her husband--
I supposed, that you had been kept at the office this evening about the business arrangements.  It was settled this morning, I believe.
It's impossible,
Impossible--?
How do you know--what you've just told me?
I saw Ellen yesterday--I told you I'd seen her at Granny's.
It wasn't then that she told you?
No; I had a note from her this afternoon.--Do you want to see it?
I thought you knew,
Why did she write this?
I suppose because we talked things over yesterday--
What things?
I told her I was afraid I hadn't been fair to her--hadn't always understood how hard it must have been for her here, alone among so many people who were relations and yet strangers; who felt the right to criticise, and yet didn't always know the circumstances. I knew you'd been the one friend she could always count on; and I wanted her to know that you and I were the same--in all our feelings.
She understood my wishing to tell her this.  I think she understands everything.
My head aches too; good-night, dear,
Henry van der Luyden--Louisa--the Lovell Mingotts--the Reggie Chiverses--Lawrence Lefferts and Gertrude--(yes, I suppose May was right to have them)--the Selfridge Merrys, Sillerton Jackson, Van Newland and his wife. (How time passes!  It seems only yesterday that he was your best man, Newland)--and Countess Olenska--yes, I think that's all....
No one can say, Newland, that you and May are not giving Ellen a handsome send-off.
Ah, well, I understand May's wanting her cousin to tell people abroad that we're not quite barbarians.
I'm sure Ellen will appreciate it.  She was to arrive this morning, I believe.  It will make a most charming last impression.  The evening before sailing is usually so dreary,
Do go in and have a peep at the table.  And don't let May tire herself too much.
Ah, well, it's not for long--
Well, the lady can't deny that it's a handsome arrangement, In fact I'm bound to say she's been treated pretty handsomely all round.
All round? Do you refer to her husband's proposal to give her back her own money?
My dear sir, the law's the law; and your wife's cousin was married under the French law.  It's to be presumed she knew what that meant.
Even if she did, what happened subsequently--.
My dear sir, I've no wish to extenuate the Count's transgressions; but--but on the other side ... I wouldn't put my hand in the fire ... well, that there hadn't been tit for tat ... with the young champion....
This report, the result of discreet enquiries ...
I don't say it's conclusive, you observe; far from it.  But straws show ... and on the whole it's eminently satisfactory for all parties that this dignified solution has been reached.
Oh, eminently,
You know she's deserted me? Oh, don't ask me why!  She gave so many reasons that I've forgotten them all.  My private belief is that she couldn't face the boredom.  At any rate that's what Augusta and my daughters-in-law think.  And I don't know that I altogether blame her.  Olenski's a finished scoundrel; but life with him must have been a good deal gayer than it is in Fifth Avenue.  Not that the family would admit that: they think Fifth Avenue is Heaven with the rue de la Paix thrown in.  And poor Ellen, of course, has no idea of going back to her husband.  She held out as firmly as ever against that.  So she's to settle down in Paris with that fool Medora....  Well, Paris is Paris; and you can keep a carriage there on next to nothing.  But she was as gay as a bird, and I shall miss her.
All I ask is, that they shouldn't bother me any more. I must really be allowed to digest my gruel....
A dinner--why?
But you like Ellen--I thought you'd be pleased.
It's awfully nice--your putting it in that way.  But I really don't see--
I mean to do it, Newland, Here are the invitations all written.  Mother helped me--she agrees that we ought to.
Oh, all right,
I don't think Ellen has ever seen this room lighted up,
Newland!  Dinner's been announced. Won't you please take Ellen in?
If it were only to see her hand again I  should  have  to follow her--.
It's to show me, what would happen to ME--
You think it laughable? Of course poor Regina's idea of remaining in New York has its ridiculous side, I suppose;
Of course.
Did you find the journey tiring?
Except, you know, the dreadful heat in the train,
I never, was more nearly frozen than once, in April, in the train between Calais and Paris.
I mean to do a lot of travelling myself before long.
I say, Reggie, what do you say to a trip round the world: now, next month, I mean?  I'm game if you are--
But you must have three weeks to do India properly,
If things go on at this pace, we shall see our children fighting for invitations to swindlers' houses, and marrying Beaufort's bastards.
Has he got any?
Queer, those fellows who are always wanting to set things right.  The people who have the worst cooks are always telling you they're poisoned when they dine out.  But I hear there are pressing reasons for our friend Lawrence's diatribe:--typewriter this time, I understand....
Certainly our hostess is much the handsomer of the two,
Is your carriage here?
We are driving dear Ellen home.
Good-bye,
Good-bye--but I shall see you soon in Paris,
Oh, if you and May could come--!
I say, old chap: do you mind just letting it be understood that I'm dining with you at the club tomorrow night?  Thanks so much, you old brick!  Good-night.
It DID go off beautifully, didn't it?
May I come and talk it over?
Of course, if you like.  But you must be awfully sleepy--
No, I'm not sleepy.  I should like to sit with you a little.
Very well,
Since you're not tired, and want to talk, there's something I must tell you.  I tried to the other night--.
Yes, dear.  Something about yourself?
About myself.  You say you're not tired: well, I am.  Horribly tired ...
Oh, I've seen it coming on, Newland!  You've been so wickedly overworked--
Perhaps it's that.  Anyhow, I want to make a break--
A break?  To give up the law?
To go away, at any rate--at once.  On a long trip, ever so far off--away from everything--
Away from everything--
Ever so far?  Where, for instance?
Oh, I don't know.  India--or Japan.
As far as that?  But I'm afraid you can't, dear ... Not unless you'll take me with you.
That is, if the doctors will let me go ... but I'm afraid they won't.  For you see, Newland, I've been sure since this morning of something I've been so longing and hoping for--
Oh, my dear,
You didn't guess--?
Yes--I; no.  That is, of course I hoped--
Have you told any one else?
Only Mamma and your mother.
That is--and Ellen.  You know I told you we'd had a long talk one afternoon--and how dear she was to me.
Ah--
Did you MIND my telling her first, Newland?
Mind?  Why should I?
But that was a fortnight ago, wasn't it?  I thought you said you weren't sure till today.
No; I wasn't sure then--but I told her I was.  And you see I was right!
Dad,
Hallo, Dad--Yes: Dallas.  I say--how do you feel about sailing on Wednesday?  Mauretania: Yes, next Wednesday as ever is.  Our client wants me to look at some Italian gardens before we settle anything, and has asked me to nip over on the next boat.  I've got to be back on the first of June--
so we must look alive.  I say, Dad, I want your help: do come.
Think it over?  No, sir: not a minute.  You've got to say yes now.  Why not, I'd like to know?  If you can allege a single reason--No; I knew it.  Then it's a go, eh?  Because I count on you to ring up the Cunard office first thing tomorrow; and you'd better book a return on a boat from Marseilles.  I say, Dad; it'll be our last time together, in this kind of way--.  Oh, good!  I knew you would.
We'll stick together,
It functions as actively, no doubt, but the rhythm is different, The difference is that these young people take it for granted that they're going to get whatever they want, and that we almost always took it for granted that we shouldn't.  Only, I wonder--the thing one's so certain of in advance: can it ever make one's heart beat as wildly?
Oh, all right--of course, I'll take you to some jolly old-fashioned place--the Bristol say--
Hullo, father: this is something like, isn't it?
By the way, I've got a message for you: the Countess Olenska expects us both at half-past five.
Oh, didn't I tell you? Fanny made me swear to do three things while I was in Paris: get her the score of the last Debussy songs, go to the Grand-Guignol and see Madame Olenska.  You know she was awfully good to Fanny when Mr. Beaufort sent her over from Buenos Ayres to the Assomption.  Fanny hadn't any friends in Paris, and Madame Olenska used to be kind to her and trot her about on holidays. I believe she was a great friend of the first Mrs. Beaufort's.  And she's our cousin, of course.  So I rang her up this morning, before I went out, and told her you and I were here for two days and wanted to see her.
You told her I was here?
Of course--why not?
I say, father: what was she like?
Come, own up: you and she were great pals, weren't you?  Wasn't she most awfully lovely?
Lovely?  I don't know.  She was different.
Ah--there you have it!  That's what it always comes to, doesn't it? When she comes, SHE'S DIFFERENT--and one doesn't know why.  It's exactly what I feel about Fanny.
About Fanny?  But, my dear fellow--I should hope so!  Only I don't see--
Dash it, Dad, don't be prehistoric!  Wasn't she--once--your Fanny?
What's the use of making mysteries?  It only makes people want to nose 'em out,
My Fanny?
Well, the woman you'd have chucked everything for: only you didn't,
I didn't,
No: you date, you see, dear old boy.  But mother said--
Your mother?
Yes: the day before she died.  It was when she sent for me alone--you remember?  She said she knew we were safe with you, and always would be, because once, when she asked you to, you'd given up the thing you most wanted.
She never asked me.
No.  I forgot.  You never did ask each other anything, did you?  And you never told each other anything.  You just sat and watched each other, and guessed at what was going on underneath.  A deaf-and-dumb asylum, in fact!  Well, I back your generation for knowing more about each other's private thoughts than we ever have time to find out about our own.--I say, Dad, you're not angry with me?  If you are, let's make it up and go and lunch at Henri's.  I've got to rush out to Versailles afterward.
But I'm only fifty-seven--
That's it: they feel equal to things--they know their way about,
Oh, by Jove,
It must be here,
I wonder which floor--?
The fifth.  It must be the one with the awnings.
I say, you know, it's nearly six,
I believe I'll sit there a moment,
Why--aren't you well?
Oh, perfectly.  But I should like you, please, to go up without me.
But, I say, Dad: do you mean you won't come up at all?
I don't know,
If you don't she won't understand.
Go, my boy; perhaps I shall follow you.
But what on earth shall I say?
My dear fellow, don't you always know what to say?
Very well.  I shall say you're old-fashioned, and prefer walking up the five flights because you don't like lifts.
Say I'm old-fashioned: that's enough.
It's more real to me here than if I went up,